![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.086111111111111in"
height="1.136111111111111in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#general)

[6](#test-sequence-format)

[6](#file-format)

[6](#codec-homing)

[7](#speech-codec-test-sequences)

[7](#codec-configuration)

[7](#speech-codec-test-sequences-1)

[7](#speech-encoder-test-sequences)

[8](#speech-decoder-test-sequences)

[8](#codec-homing-sequence)

[9](#test-sequences-for-source-controlled-rate-operation)

[9](#codec-configuration-1)

[9](#test-sequences)

[9](#test-sequences-for-background-noise-estimation)

[10](#test-sequences-for-pitch-tone-and-complex-signal-detection)

[10](#real-speech-and-tones)

[10](#test-sequence-for-signal-to-noise-ratio-estimation)

[10](#sequences-for-finding-the-20-ms-framing-of-the-adaptive-multi-rate-speech-encoder)

[10](#bit-synchronisation)

[11](#frame-synchronisation)

[11](#formats-and-sizes-of-the-synchronisation-sequences)

[12](#trau-testing-with-8-bit-a--and-µ-law-pcm-test-sequences)

[13](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
General 5 Test sequence format 5.1 File format 5.2 Codec homing 6 Speech
codec test sequences 6.1 Codec configuration 6.2 Speech codec test
sequences 6.2.1 Speech encoder test sequences 6.2.2 Speech decoder test
sequences 6.2.3 Codec homing sequence 7 Test sequences for source
controlled rate operation 7.1 Codec configuration 7.2 Test Sequences
7.2.1 Test sequences for background noise estimation 7.2.2 Test
sequences for pitch, tone and complex signal detection 7.2.3 Real speech
and tones 7.2.4 Test sequence for signal-to-noise ratio estimation 8
Sequences for finding the 20 ms framing of the adaptive multi-rate
speech encoder 8.1 Bit synchronisation 8.2 Frame synchronisation 8.3
Formats and sizes of the synchronisation sequences 9 Trau Testing with 8
Bit A- and µ-law PCM Test Sequences Annex A (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the digital test sequences for the
adaptive multi-rate (AMR) speech codec. These sequences test for a bit
exact implementation of the adaptive multi-rate speech transcoder
(TS 26.090 \[2\]), voice activity detection (TS 26.094 \[5\]), comfort
noise (TS 26.092 \[3\]), and source controlled rate operation (TS 26.093
\[4\]).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 26.071: \"AMR Speech Codec; General Description\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"AMR Speech Codec; Speech Transcoding
Functions\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 26.092: \"AMR Speech Codec; Comfort Noise Aspects\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 26.093: \"AMR Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate
Operation\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 26.094: \"AMR Speech Codec; Voice Activity Detector\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 26.091: \"AMR Speech Codec; Error Concealment of Lost
Frames\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 26.073: \"AMR Speech Codec; ANSI C-code\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 46.054: \"Test sequences for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate
(EFR) speech codec\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TS 26.090 \[2\], TS 26.091 \[6\], TS 26.092 \[3\], TS 26.093
\[4\] and TS 26.094 \[5\] apply.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

\[T.B.A\]

4 General
=========

Digital test sequences are necessary to test for a bit exact
implementation of the adaptive multi-rate speech transcoder (TS 26.090
\[2\]), voice activity detection (TS 26.094 \[5\]), comfort noise
generation (TS 26.092 \[3\]), and source controlled rate operation (TS
26.093 \[4\]).

The test sequences may also be used to verify installations of the ANSI
C code in TS 26.073 \[7\].

Clause 5 describes the format of the files which contain the digital
test sequences. Clause 6 describes the test sequences for the speech
transcoder. Clause 7 describes the test sequences for the VAD, comfort
noise and source controlled rate operation.

Clause 8 describes the method by which synchronisation is obtained
between the test sequences and the speech codec under test.

\[Clause 9 describes the alternative acceptance testing of the speech
encoder and decoder in the TRAU by means of 8 bit A- or µ-law compressed
test sequences on the A-Interface.\]

5 Test sequence format
======================

This clause provides information on the format of the digital test
sequences for the GSM adaptive multi-rate speech transcoder (TS 26.090
\[2\]), voice activity detection (TS 26.094 \[5\]), comfort noise
generation (TS 26.092 \[3\]), and source controlled rate operation (TS
26.093 \[4\]).

5.1 File format
---------------

The test sequence files in PC (little-endian) byte order are provided in
archive files (ZIP format) which accompany the present document.

Following decompression, three types of file are provided:

\- Files for input to the speech encoder: \*.INP

\- Files for comparison with the encoder output and for input to the
speech decoder: \*.COD

\- Files for comparison with the decoder output: \*.OUT

\- One mode control file for the mode switching test T21.MOD

All file formats are described in TS 26.073 \[7\].

5.2 Codec homing
----------------

Each \*.INP file includes two homing frames (see TS 26.073 \[7\]) at the
start of the test sequence. The function of these frames is to reset the
speech encoder state variables to their initial value. In the case of a
correct installation of the ANSI-C simulation (TS 26.073 \[7\]), all
speech encoder output frames shall be identical to the corresponding
frame in the \*.COD file. In the case of a correct hardware
implementation undergoing testing, the first speech encoder output frame
is undefined and need not be identical to the first frame in the \*.COD
file, but all remaining speech encoder output frames shall be identical
to the corresponding frames in the \*.COD file.

The function of the two homing frames in the \*.COD files is to reset
the speech decoder state variables to their initial value. In the case
of a correct installation of the ANSI-C simulation (TS 26.073 \[7\]),
all speech decoder output frames shall be identical to the corresponding
frame in the \*.OUT file. In the case of a correct hardware
implementation undergoing testing, the first speech decoder output frame
is undefined and need not be identical to first frame in the \*.OUT
file, but all remaining speech decoder output frames shall be identical
to the corresponding frames in the \*.OUT file.

6 Speech codec test sequences
=============================

This clause describes the test sequences designed to exercise the
adaptive multi-rate speech transcoder (TS 26.090 \[2\]).

6.1 Codec configuration
-----------------------

The speech encoder shall be configured not to operate in the source
controlled rate mode.

6.2 Speech codec test sequences
-------------------------------

### 6.2.1 Speech encoder test sequences

Twenty-two encoder input sequences are provided. Note that for the input
sequences T00.INP to T03.INP, the amplitude figures are given in 13-bit
precision. The active speech levels are given in dBov.

\- T00.INP - Synthetic harmonic signal. The pitch delay varies slowly
from 18 to 143.5 samples. The minimum and maximum amplitudes are -997
and +971.

\- T01.INP - Synthetic harmonic signal. The pitch delay varies slowly
from 144 down to 18.5 samples. Amplitudes at saturation point -4096 and
+4095.

\- T02.INP - Sinusoidal sweep varying from 150 Hz to 3400 Hz. Amplitudes
± 1250.

\- T03.INP - Sinusoidal sweep varying from 150 Hz to 3400 Hz. Amplitudes
± 4000.

\- T04.INP - Female speech, active speech level: -19.4 dBov, flat
frequency response.

\- T05.INP - Male speech, active speech level: -18.7 dBov, flat
frequency response.

\- T06.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -35.0
dBov, flat frequency response.

\- T07.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -25.0
dBov, flat frequency response.

\- T08.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -15.6
dBov, flat frequency response.

\- T09.INP - Female speech, car noise, active speech level: -35.5 dBov,
flat frequency response.

\- T10.INP - Female speech, car noise, active speech level: -26.1 dBov,
flat frequency response.

\- T11.INP - Female speech, car noise, active speech level: -15.8 dBov,
flat frequency response.

\- T12.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -34.9
dBov, flat frequency response.

\- T13.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -24.8
dBov, flat frequency response.

\- T14.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -15.0
dBov, flat frequency response.

\- T15.INP - Male speech, babble noise, active speech level: -34.1 dBov,
flat frequency response.

\- T16.INP - Male speech, babble noise, active speech level: -24.3 dBov,
flat frequency response.

\- T17.INP - Male speech, babble noise, active speech level: -14.4 dBov,
flat frequency response.

\- T18.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -26.0
dBov, modified IRS frequency response, with many zero frames.

\- T19.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -36.0
dBov, modified IRS frequency response, with many zero frames.

\- T20.INP - Sequence for exercising the LPC vector quantisation
codebooks and ROM tables of the codec.

\- T21.INP - Speech sequence for mode switching test.

The output using these input sequences will be different depending on
the tested adaptive multi-rate mode. In the notation used below \<mode\>
should be changed to the number of the tested mode, i.e. one of 122,
102, 795, 74, 67, 59, 515, or 475.

The T00.INP and T01.INP sequences were designed to test the pitch lag of
the GSM adaptive multi-rate speech encoder. In a correct implementation,
the resulting speech encoder output parameters shall be identical to
those specified in the T00\_\<mode\>.COD and T01\_\<mode\>.COD
sequences, respectively.

The T02.INP and T03.INP sequences are particularly suited for testing
the LPC analysis, as well as for finding saturation problems. In a
correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters
shall be identical to those specified in the T02\_\<mode\>.COD and
T03\_\<mode\>.COD sequences, respectively.

The T04.INP and T05.INP sequences contain a lot of low-frequency
components. In a correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder
output parameters shall be identical to those specified in the
T04\_\<mode\>.COD and T05\_\<mode\>.COD sequences, respectively.

The T18.INP and T19.INP sequences contain some \"all zeros\" frames
(silence) in between segments of speech. In a correct implementation,
the resulting speech encoder output parameters shall be identical to
those specified in the T18\_\<mode\>.COD and T19\_\<mode\>.COD
sequences, respectively.

The T20.INP sequence was designed to exercise the LPC code indices and
the ROM table indices of the codec.

The sequences T06.INP to T17.INP were selected on the basis of bringing
various input characteristics (background noise) and levels to the test
sequence set. In a correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder
output parameters shall be identical to those specified in the
T06\_\<mode\>.COD to T17\_\<mode\>.COD sequences, respectively.

The T21.INP sequence was designed to test mode switching in the encoder.
For testing mode switching this sequence is used together with the mode
control file T21.MOD. See TS 26.073 \[7\] for the format of the mode
control file. In a correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder
output parameters shall be identical to those specified in the sequence
T21.COD. Note that T21.COD contains parameter frames in different codec
modes.

### 6.2.2 Speech decoder test sequences

Twenty-one times eight speech decoder input sequences TXX\_\<mode\>.COD
(XX = 00..20, \<mode\> = {122, 102, 795, 74, 67, 59, 515, or 475}) are
provided for the static mode tests. These are the output of the
corresponding TXX.INP sequences, one set per mode. In a correct
implementation, the resulting speech decoder output shall be identical
to the corresponding TXX\_\<mode\>.OUT sequences.

The switching test decoder input T21.COD shall result in decoder output
identical to the T21.OUT sequence. For the decoder switching test no
special mode control file is needed since the mode information is
included in the .COD file according to the file format (see TS 26.073
\[7\]).

### 6.2.3 Codec homing sequence

In addition to the test sequences described above, the homing sequences
are provided to assist in codec testing. T22.INP contains one
encoder-homing-frame. The sequences T22\_\<mode\>.COD (\<mode\> = {122,
102, 795, 74, 67, 59, 515, or 475}) contain one decoder-homing-frame
each for the corresponding mode. The use of these sequences is described
in TS 26.071 \[1\].

All files are contained in the archive T.TGZ which accompanies the
present document.

7 Test sequences for source controlled rate operation
=====================================================

This clause describes the test sequences designed to exercise the VAD
algorithm options 1 and 2 (TS 26.094 \[5\]), comfort noise (TS 26.092
\[3\]), and source controlled rate operation (TS 26.093 \[4\]).

Test sequences DTX\*.\* are to be used with VAD option 1. DTX1.\*,
DTX2.\*, and DTX4.\* shall be run only with speech codec mode MR122.
Test sequence DTX3.\* shall be run for all the speech codec modes
(MR122, MR102, MR795, MR67, MR59, MR515 and MR475).

Test sequencesDT2.\*.\* are to be used with VAD option 2. DT21.\*,
DT23.\*, and DT24.\* shall be run only with speech codec mode MR122.
Test sequence DT22.\* shall be run for all the speech codec modes
(MR122, MR102, MR795, MR67, MR59, MR515 and MR475).

7.1 Codec configuration
-----------------------

The VAD, comfort noise and source controlled rate operation shall be
tested in conjunction with the speech coder (TS 26.090 \[2\]). The
speech encoder shall be configured to operate in the source controlled
rate mode, with either VAD option1 or VAD option 2.

7.2 Test Sequences
------------------

Each DTX test sequence consists of three files:

\- Files for input to the speech encoder: \*.INP

\- Files for comparison with the encoder output and input to the speech
decoder: \*.COD

\- Files for comparison with the decoder output: \*.OUT

The \*.COD and \*.OUT file names has the format DTxA\_\<mode\>.\*, where
\"x\" is the VAD option ( X for option 1 and 2 for option 2), \"A\" is
the test case number (1, 2, 3 or 4) and \<mode\> is the speech codec
mode.

In a correct implementation, the speech encoder parameters generated by
the \*.INP file shall be identical to those specified in the \*.COD
file; and the speech decoder output generated by the \*.COD file shall
be identical to that specified in the \*.OUT file.

  --------------- --------------- -------------- --------- ---------
  Sequence name   No. of frames   Size (bytes)             
                                  \*.INP         \*.COD    \*.OUT
  DTX1            710             227 200        355 000   227 200
  DTX2            898             287 360        449 000   287 360
  DTX3            1620            518 400        810 000   518 400
  DTX4            1188            380 160        594 000   380 160
  DT21            938             300 160        469 000   300 160
  DT22            616             197 280        308 000   197 120
  DT23            938             300 320        469 000   300 160
  DT24            1188            380 160        594 000   380 160
  --------------- --------------- -------------- --------- ---------

### 7.2.1 Test sequences for background noise estimation

Background noise estimation algorithm is tested by the following test
sequences:

DTX1.\*

DTX2.\*

DT21.\*

DT22.\*

(The sequence DTX1.INP in the same as in \[8\] 3GPP TS 46.054 sequence
DTX01.INP)

### 7.2.2 Test sequences for pitch, tone and complex signal detection

Pitch, tone and complex signal detection algorithms are tested by the
following test sequence:

DTX3.\*

### 7.2.3 Real speech and tones

This test sequence consists of very clean speech, barely detectable
speech and a swept frequency tone (The sequences DTX4.INP and DT24.INP
are the same as in \[8\] 3GPP TS 46.054 sequence DTX07.INP):

DTX4.\*

DT24.\*

### 7.2.4 Test sequence for signal-to-noise ratio estimation

The full range of SNR estimates are tested by the following test
sequence:

DT23.\*

8 Sequences for finding the 20 ms framing of the adaptive multi-rate speech encoder
===================================================================================

*\[This clause needs further adaptation of the text and terminology from
GSM to 3G context.\]*

When testing the decoder, alignment of the test sequences used to the
decoder framing is achieved by the air interface (testing of MS) or can
be reached easily on the Abis-interface (testing on network side).

When testing the encoder, usually there is no information available
about where the encoder starts its 20 ms segments of speech input to the
encoder.

In the following, a procedure is described to find the 20 ms framing of
the encoder using special synchronisation sequences. This procedure can
be used for MS as well as for network side.

Synchronisation can be achieved in two steps. First, bit synchronisation
has to be found. In a second step, frame synchronisation can be
determined. This procedure takes advantage of the codec homing feature
of the adaptive multi-rate codec, which puts the codec in a defined home
state after the reception of the first homing frame. On the reception of
further homing frames, the output of the codec is predefined and can be
triggered to.

8.1 Bit synchronisation
-----------------------

The input to the speech encoder is a series of 13 bit long words (104
kbits/s, 13 bit linear PCM). When starting to test the speech encoder,
no knowledge is available on bit synchronisation, i.e., where the
encoder expects its least significant bits, and where it expects the
most significant bits.

The encoder homing frame consists of 160 samples, all set to zero with
the exception of the least significant bit, which is set to one (0 0000
0000 0001 binary, or 0x0008 hex if written into 16 bit words left
justified). If two such encoder homing frames are input to the encoder
consecutively, the corresponding decoder homing frame of the used codec
mode is expected at the output as a reaction of the second encoder
homing frame.

Since there are only 13 possibilities for bit synchronisation, after a
maximum of 13 trials bit synchronisation can be reached for each codec
mode. In each trial three consecutive encoder homing frames are input to
the encoder. If the corresponding decoder homing frame is not detected
at the output, the relative bit position of the three input frames is
shifted by one and another trial is performed. As soon as the decoder
homing frame of the used codec mode is detected at the output, bit
synchronisation is found, and the first step can be terminated.

The reason why three consecutive encoder homing frames are needed is
that frame synchronisation is not known at this stage. To be sure that
the encoder reads two complete homing frames, three frames have to be
input. Wherever the encoder has its 20 ms segmentation, it will always
read at least two complete encoder homing frames.

An example of the 13 different frame triplets is given in sequence
BITSYNC.INP.

8.2 Frame synchronisation
-------------------------

Once bit synchronisation is found, frame synchronisation can be found by
inputting two identical frames consecutively to the encoder. There exist
160 different output sequences depending on the 160 different positions
that the beginning of this sequence of frames can possibly have with
respect to the encoder framing.

Before inputting this special synchronisation sequence to the encoder,
again the encoder has to be reset by one encoder homing frame. A second
encoder homing frame is needed to provoke a decoder homing frame at the
output that can be triggered to. And since the framing of the encoder is
not known at that stage, three encoder homing frames have to precede the
special synchronisation sequence to ensure that the encoder reads at
least two homing frames, and at least one decoder homing frame is
produced at the output, serving as a trigger for recording.

After the last decoder homing frame of the used codec mode it is
required to detect two consecutive output frames that are different from
the preceding decoder homing frame. To achieve this in the 12.2 kbit/s
mode (no lookahead in the linear prediction analysis \[4\]), the last 40
samples of the third encoder homing frame shall be different from 0x0008
hex. Only the first 120 samples of this frame were set to 0x0008 hex in
this mode.

The special synchronisation sequence preceded by three encoder homing
frames are given in SEQSYNC.INP. For the 12.2 kbit/s mode this sequence
is different in the third frame and is given in SEQSYNC\_122.INP.

Generally, the output sequences will be different depending on the
tested adaptive multi-rate mode. In the notation below \<mode\> should
be changed to the number of the tested mode, i.e. one of 122, 102, 795,
74, 67, 59, 515 or 475.

In all 160 output sequences only the second frame after the last decoder
homing frame is given in SYNC000\_\<mode\>.COD through
SYNC159\_\<mode\>.COD. These output frames were calculated by shifting
the sequence SEQSYNC.INP respectively SEQSYNC\_122.INP through the
positions 0 to 159, where the samples at the beginning were set to zero.
For each codec mode it was finally verified that the last frame in each
of the 160 output sequences is different to all other last frames.

The three digit number in the filenames above indicates the number of
samples by which the input was retarded with respect to the encoder
framing. By a corresponding shift in the opposite direction, alignment
with the encoder framing for the used codec mode can be reached.

8.3 Formats and sizes of the synchronisation sequences
------------------------------------------------------

BITSYNC.INP:

This sequence consists of 13 frame triplets. It has the format of the
speech encoder input test sequences (13 bit left justified with the
three least significant bits set to zero).

The size of it is therefore:

SIZE (BITSYNC.INP) = 13 \* 3 \* 160 \* 2 bytes = 12480 bytes

SEQSYNC.INP/SEQSYNC\_122.INP:

This sequence consist of a 3 frame header (see clause 8.2 for details)
and the special synchronisation sequence, consisting of two identical
frames. It has the format of the speech encoder input test sequences (13
bit left justified with the three least significant bits set to zero).

The size of it is therefore:

SIZE (SEQSYNC.INP/SEQSYNC\_122.INP) = 5 \* 160 \* 2 bytes = 1600 bytes

SYNCXXX\_\<mode\>.COD:

These sequences consists of 1 encoder output frame each. They have the
format of the speech encoder output test sequences (16 bit words right
justified). In these frames the values of the FRAME\_TYPE and MODE\_INFO
fields are set to the transmit frame type and to the corresponding
encoding mode information \[3\].

The size of them is therefore:

SIZE (SYNCXXX\_\<mode\>.COD) = (244 + 6) \* 2 bytes = 500 bytes

All files are contained in the archive S.TGZ which accompanies the
present document.

9 Trau Testing with 8 Bit A- and µ-law PCM Test Sequences
=========================================================

*\[This clause needs further adaptation of the text and terminology from
GSM to 3G context.\]*

In the previous clauses, tests for the transcoder in the TRAU are
described, using 13 bit linear test sequences. However, these 13 bit
test sequences require a special interface in the TRAU and do not allow
testing in the field. In most cases the TRAU has to be set in special
mode before testing.

The \'Y\' in the file names below stands for A (A-law) and U (µ-law),
respectively.

As an alternative, the speech codec tests in the TRAU can be performed
using A- or µ-law compressed 8 bit PCM test sequences on the A
interface. For this purpose modified input test sequences (TXX\_Y.INP)
are generated from the original sequences (see clause 6) by A or µ law
compression. As an input to the encoder they result in modified encoder
output sequences (TXX.COD). These modified (TXX.COD) sequences are used
as decoder input sequences. The decoder will then produce the output
sequences TXX\_Y.OUT, which are A- or µ compressed.

The A- and µ-law compression and decompression does not change the
homing frames at the encoder input. The format of all A- and µ-law PCM
files TXX\_Y.INP and TXX\_Y.OUT is one sample (8 bit) written into 16
bit words. The format of the modified TXX.COD files is as described in
clause 5.

All files are contained in the archives T\_A.TGZ (for the A-law
sequences) and T\_U.TGZ (for the µ-law sequences) which accompany the
present document.

In addition to the test sequences above, special input
(SEQSYNC\_Y.INP/SEQSYNC\_122\_Y.INP) and output
(SEQSYNC000\_\<mode\>.COD through SEQSYNC159\_\<mode\>.COD) sequences
for frame synchronisation are provided. The Y again stands for A and µ
law compressed PCM and \<mode\> is described in clause 6.

All files are contained in the archives S\_A.TGZ (for the A-law
sequences) and S\_U.TGZ (for the µ-law sequences) which accompany the
present document. The synchronization procedure is described in clause
8.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                 **Old**   **New**
  12-1999              6                                              V.3.0.0 Approved                                                                              3.0.0
  02-2000                                                             Inclusion of test sequences                                                         3.0.0     3.0.1
  09-2000                                                             Inclusion of corrected VAD2 test sequences                                          3.0.1     3.0.2
  02-2001              11           SP-010101      001                Update of AMR codec test sequences after CRs to TS 26.073                           3.0.2     3.1.0
  03-2001              11           SP-010101      002                Update of AMR codec test sequences after CRs to TS 26.073                           3.0.2     4.0.0
  06-2001                                                             Update of AMR codec test sequences (including also the synchronisation sequences)   4.0.0     4.0.1
  06-2002              16                                             Version for Release 5                                                               4.0.1     5.0.0
  12-2004              26                                             Version for Release 6                                                               5.0.0     6.0.0
  06-2007              36                                             Version for Release 7                                                               6.0.0     7.0.0
  12-2008              42                                             Version for Release 8                                                               7.0.0     8.0.0
  12-2009              46                                             Version for Release 9                                                               8.0.0     9.0.0
  11-2011              51                                             Version for Release 10                                                              9.0.0     10.0.0
  09-2012              57                                             Version for Release 11                                                              10.0.0    11.0.0
  12-2013              62           SP-130568      0005               Correction to references                                                            11.0.0    11.1.0
  09-2014              65                                             Version for Release 12                                                              11.1.0    12.0.0
  12-2015              70                                             Version for Release 13                                                              12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- --------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                       
  **Date**             **Meeting**     **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                         **New version**
  2017-03              75                                                      Version for Release 14                                                                      14.0.0
  2018-06              80                                                      Version for Release 15                                                                      15.0.0
  2020-07              SA\#88-e-       \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                              **16.0.0**
  2020-12              Post SA\#88-e                                           Version upgraded due to change in filenames, rest of the specification remains same (MCC)   **16.1.0**
  -------------------- --------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
