![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.086111111111111in"
height="1.136111111111111in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#general)

[6](#test-sequence-format)

[6](#file-format)

[6](#dsr-test-sequences)

[7](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 General 5 Test sequence format 5.1 File format 6 DSR
test sequences Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the digital test sequences for the DSR
Extended Advanced Front-end speech codec. These sequences can be used to
test for a bit exact implementation of the DSR Advanced Front-end codec
and quantization (3GPP TS 26.243).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions, which through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 26.243: \"ANSI-C code for the Fixed-Point Distributed
Speech Recognition Extended Advanced Front-end\".

\[2\] ETSI ES 202 050 (2007-01) V1.1.5: \"Speech Processing,
Transmission and Quality Aspects (STQ); Distributed speech recognition;
Advanced front-end feature extraction algorithm; Compression algorithms
DSR advanced front end.\"

\[3\] ETSI ES 202 212 (2005-11) V1.1.2: \"Speech Processing,
Transmission and Quality Aspects (STQ); Distributed speech recognition;
Extended advanced front-end feature extraction algorithm; Compression
algorithms; Back-end speech reconstruction algorithm\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 26.074: \"AMR speech codec test sequences\"

\[5\] 3GPP TS 26.174: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) Wideband speech codec
test sequences\"

3 Abbreviations
===============

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

AFE Advanced Front-end

AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate

AMR-NB AMR Narrowband

AMR-WB AMR Wideband

DSR Distributed Speech Recognition

ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute

GSM Global System for Mobile communications

SES Speech Enabled Services

VAD Voice Activity Detector

X-AFE eXtended Advanced Front-end

4 General
=========

Digital test sequences are provided to test for a bit exact
implementation of the Distributed Speech Recognition Extended Advanced
Front-end (3GPP TS 26.243 \[1\]).

The test sequences may also be used to verify installations of the ANSI
C code in 3GPP TS 26.243 \[1\].

Clause 5 describes the format of the files, which contain the digital
test sequences.

5 Test sequence format
======================

This clause provides information on the format of the digital test
sequences for the DSR Extended Advanced Front-end (TS 26.243 \[1\]).

5.1 File format
---------------

The test sequence files in PC (little-endian) byte order are provided in
archive files (ZIP format), which accompany the present document.

Following decompression, three types of file are provided:

\*.inp - Input to the speech encoder.

\*.cep -- Cepstral output of the encoder, input to the quantizer.

\*.pitch -- Pitch output of the encoder, input to the quantizer.

\*.class -- Class output of the encoder, input to the quantizer.

\*.vad -- VAD output of the encoder, input to the quantizer.

\*.bs -- Output of the quantizer

Two test scripts are provided for exercising the Extended Advanced
Front-end and quantizer functions.

All file formats are described in 3GPP TS 26.243 \[1\].

6 DSR test sequences
====================

Forty-three encoder input sequences are provided, 22 with 8kHz sampling,
23 with 16kHz sampling.

8kHz sampling:

T00.INP - T21.INP as described in the AMR test sequences document TS
26.074 \[4\].

16kHz sampling:

T00.INP - T22.INP as described in the AMR WB test sequences document TS
26.174 \[5\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------------- -------------- -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------- --------- ---------
  Change history                                                                                          
  **Date**         **TSG SA\#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**         **Old**   **New**
  12-2004          26             SP-040833                         Approved at TSG SA\#26      1.0.0     6.0.0
  06-2007          36                                               Version for Release 7       6.0.0     7.0.0
  12-2008          42                                               Version for Release 8       7.0.0     8.0.0
  12-2009          46                                               Version for Release 9       8.0.0     9.0.0
  03-2011          51                                               Version for Release 10      9.0.0     10.0.0
  09-2012          57                                               Version for Release 11      10.0.0    11.0.0
  12-2013          62             SP-130568      0001               Corrections to references   11.0.0    11.1.0
  09-2014          65                                               Version for Release 12      11.1.0    12.0.0
  12-2015          70                                               Version for Release 13      12.0.0    13.0.0
  ---------------- -------------- -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  2017-03              75                                                    Version for Release 14           14.0.0
  2018-06              80                                                    Version for Release 15           15.0.0
  2020-07              \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
