![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.086111111111111in"
height="1.136111111111111in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#c-code-structure)

[6](#contents-of-the-c-source-code)

[6](#program-execution)

[6](#code-hierarchy)

[10](#variables-constants-and-tables)

[11](#description-of-constants-used-in-the-c-code)

[11](#description-of-fixed-tables-used-in-the-c-code)

[13](#static-variables-used-in-the-c-code)

[16](#homing-procedure)

[16](#file-formats)

[16](#speech-file-encoder-input-decoder-output)

[16](#mode-control-file-encoder-input)

[17](#parameter-bitstream-file-encoder-output-decoder-input)

[17](#default-3gpp-format)

[18](#itu-format-activated-with-command-line-parameter--itu)

[18](#mimefile-storage-format-activated-with-command-line-parameter--mime)

[19](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 C code
structure 4.1 Contents of the C source code 4.2 Program execution 4.3
Code hierarchy 4.5 Variables, constants and tables 4.5.1 Description of
constants used in the C-code 4.5.2 Description of fixed tables used in
the C-code 4.5.3 Static variables used in the C-code 5 Homing procedure
6 File formats 6.1 Speech file (encoder input / decoder output) 6.2 Mode
control file (encoder input) 6.3 Parameter bitstream file (encoder
output / decoder input) Default 3GPP format: ITU format (activated with
command line parameter -itu) MIME/file storage format (activated with
command line parameter -mime) Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document contains an electronic copy of the ANSI‑C code for
the Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband codec. The ANSI‑C code is necessary for
a bit exact implementation of the Adaptive Multi Rate Wideband speech
transcoder (3GPP TS 26.190 \[2\]), Voice Activity Detection (3GPP TS
26.194 \[6\]), comfort noise (3GPP TS 26.192 \[4\]), source controlled
rate operation (3GPP TS 26.193 \[5\]) and example solutions for
substituting and muting of lost frames (3GPP TS 26.191 \[3\]).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 26.174: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Test sequences\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 26.190: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Speech transcoding\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 26.191: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Substitution and
muting of lost frames\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 26.192: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Comfort noise
aspects\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 26.193: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Source controlled
rate operation\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 26.194: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Voice Activity
Detection\".

\[7\] RFC 3267 \"A Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Payload Format and
File Storage Format for Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and Adaptive
Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) Audio Codecs\", June 2002.

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

Definition of terms used in the present document, can be found in 3GPP
TS 26.190  \[2\], 3GPP TS 26.191  \[3\], 3GPP TS 26.192  \[4\], 3GPP
TS 26.193  \[5\] and 3GPP TS 26.194  \[6\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purpose of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

AMR-WB Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband

ANSI American National Standards Institute

ETS European Telecommunication Standard

GSM Global System for Mobile communications

I/O Input/Output

RAM Random Access Memory

ROM Read Only Memory

4 C code structure
==================

This clause gives an overview of the structure of the bit‑exact C code
and provides an overview of the contents and organization of the C code
attached to this document.

The C code has been verified on the following systems:

\- Sun Microsystems workstations and GNU gcc compiler

\- HP workstations and cc compiler

\- IBM PC compatible computers with Windows NT4 operating system and GNU
gcc compiler.

ANSI‑C was selected as the programming language because portability was
desirable.

4.1 Contents of the C source code
---------------------------------

The C code distribution has all files in the root level.

The distributed files with suffix \"c\" contain the source code and the
files with suffix \"h\" are the header files. The ROM data is contained
mostly in files with suffix \"tab\".

The C code distribution also contains one speech coder installation
verification data file, \"spch\_dos.inp\". The reference encoder output
file is named \"spch\_dos.cod\", the reference decoder input file is
named \"spch\_dos.dec\" and the reference decoder output file is named
\"spch\_dos.out\". These four files are formatted such that they are
correct for an IBM PC/AT compatible computer. The same files with
reversed byte order of the 16 bit words are named \"spch\_unx.inp\",
\"spch\_unx.cod\", \"spch\_unx.dec\" and \"spch\_unx.out\",
respectively.

Final verification is to be performed using the GSM Adaptive Multi-Rate
Wideband test sequences described in 3GPP TS 26.174 \[1\].

Makefiles are provided for the platforms in which the C code has been
verified (listed above). Once the software is installed, this directory
will have a compiled version of *encoder* and *decoder* (the bit-exact C
executables of the speech codec) and all the object files.

4.2 Program execution
---------------------

The GSM Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband codec is implemented in two
programs:

*-* (*encoder*) speech encoder;

*-* (*decoder*) speech decoder.

The programs should be called like:

\- encoder \[encoder options\] \<speech input file\> \<parameter file\>;

\- decoder \<parameter file\> \<speech output file\>.

The speech files contain 16-bit linear encoded PCM speech samples and
the parameter files contain encoded speech data and some additional
flags.

The encoder and decoder options will be explained by running the
applications without input arguments. See the file readme.txt for more
information on how to run the *encoder* and *decoder* programs.

4.3 Code hierarchy
------------------

Tables 1 to 3 are call graphs that show the functions used in the speech
codec, including the functions of VAD, DTX, and comfort noise
generation.

Each column represents a call level and each cell a function. The
functions contain calls to the functions in rightwards neighbouring
cells. The time order in the call graphs is from the top downwards as
the processing of a frame advances. All standard C functions: printf(),
fwrite(), etc. have been omitted. Also, no basic operations (add(),
L\_add(), mac(), etc.) or double precision extended operations (e.g.
L\_Extract()) appear in the graphs. The initialization of the static RAM
(i.e. calling the \_init functions) is also omitted.

The basic operations are not counted as extending the depth, therefore
the deepest level in this software is level 6.

The encoder call graph is broken down into two separate call graphs,
Table 1 to 2.

Table 1: Speech encoder call structure

  ------- --------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- --------------- --
  coder   Copy                                                                                            
          Decim\_12k8                 Down\_samp                Interpol (function)                       
                                      Copy                                                                
          Set\_zero                                                                                       
          HP50\_12k8                                                                                      
          Scale\_sig                                                                                      
          wb\_vad                     Filter\_bank              Filter5                                   
                                                                Filter3                                   
                                                                Level\_calculation                        
                                      vad\_decision             Ilog2                                     
                                                                Noise\_estimate\_update   update\_cntrl   
                                                                hangover\_addition                        
                                      Estimate\_Speech                                                    
          tx\_dtx\_handler                                                                                
          Parm\_serial                                                                                    
          Autocorr                                                                                        
          Lag\_window                                                                                     
          Levinson                                                                                        
          Az\_isp                     Chebps2                                                             
          Int\_isp                    Isp\_Az                   Get\_isp\_pol                             
          Isp\_isf                                                                                        
          Gp\_clip\_test\_isf                                                                             
          Weight\_a                                                                                       
          Residu                                                                                          
          Deemph2                                                                                         
          LP\_Decim2                                                                                      
          Scale\_mem\_Hp\_wsp                                                                             
          Pitch\_med\_ol              Hp\_wsp                                                             
                                      Isqrt\_n                                                            
          wb\_vad\_tone\_detection                                                                        
          Med\_olag                   median5                                                             
          dtx\_buffer                 Copy                                                                
          dtx\_enc                    Find\_frame\_indices                                                
                                      Aver\_isf\_history                                                  
                                      Qisf\_ns                  Sub\_VQ                                   
                                                                Disf\_ns                  Reorder\_isf    
                                      Parm\_serial                                                        
                                      Pow2                                                                
                                      Random                                                              
                                      Dot\_product12                                                      
                                      Isqrt\_n                                                            
          Isf\_isp                                                                                        
          Isp\_Az                     Get\_isp\_pol                                                       
          Synthesis                   Copy                                                                
                                      Syn\_filt\_32                                                       
                                      Deemph\_32                                                          
                                      HP50\_12k8                                                          
                                      Random                                                              
                                      Scale\_sig                                                          
                                      Dot\_product12                                                      
                                      Isqrt\_n                                                            
                                      HP400\_12k8                                                         
                                      Weight\_a                                                           
                                      Syn\_filt                                                           
                                      Filt\_6k\_7k                                                        
          Reset\_encoder              Set\_zero                                                           
                                      Init\_gp\_clip                                                      
                                      Init\_Phase\_dispersion   Set\_zero                                 
          Qpisf\_2s\_36b              VQ\_stage1                                                          
                                      Sub\_VQ                                                             
                                      Dpisf\_2s\_36b            Reorder\_isf                              
          Qpisf\_2s\_46b              VQ\_stage1                                                          
                                      Sub\_VQ                                                             
                                      Dpisf\_2s\_46b            Reorder\_isf                              
          Syn\_filt                                                                                       
          Preemph2                                                                                        
          Pitch\_fr4                  Norm\_Corr                Convolve                                  
                                                                Isqrt\_n                                  
                                      Interpol\_4                                                         
          Gp\_clip                                                                                        
          Pred\_lt4                                                                                       
          Convolve                                                                                        
          G\_pitch                    Dot\_product12                                                      
          Updt\_tar                                                                                       
          Preemph                                                                                         
          Pit\_shrp                                                                                       
          Cor\_h\_x                                                                                       
          ACELP\_2t64\_fx             Dot\_product12                                                      
                                      Isqrt\_n                                                            
          ACELP\_4t64\_fx             See Table 2                                                         
          Q\_gain2                    Dot\_product12                                                      
                                      Pow2                                                                
          Gp\_clip\_test\_gain\_pit                                                                       
          voice\_factor               Dot\_product12                                                      
  ------- --------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- --------------- --

Table 2: ACELP\_4t64\_fx call structure

  ----------------- ------------------ ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- --
  ACELP\_4t64\_fx   Dot\_product12                                                        
                    Isqrt\_n                                                              
                    cor\_h\_vec                                                           
                    search\_ixiy                                                          
                    quant\_1p\_N1                                                         
                    quant\_2p\_2N1                                                        
                    quant\_3p\_3N1     quant\_2p\_2N1                                     
                                       quant\_1p\_N1                                      
                    quant\_4p\_4N      quant\_4p\_4N1   Quant\_2p\_2N1                    
                                       quant\_1p\_N1                                      
                                       quant\_3p\_3N1   Quant\_2p\_2N1                    
                                                        Quant\_1p\_N1                     
                                       quant\_2p\_2N1                                     
                    quant\_5p\_5N      quant\_3p\_3N1   Quant\_2p\_2N1                    
                                                        Quant\_1p\_N1                     
                                       quant\_2p\_2N1                                     
                    quant\_6p\_6N\_2   quant\_5p\_5N    Quant\_3p\_3N1   quant\_2p\_2N1   
                                                                         Quant\_1p\_N1    
                                                        quant\_2p\_2N1                    
                                       quant\_1p\_N1                                      
                                       quant\_4p\_4N    quant\_4p\_4N1   quant\_2p\_2N1   
                                                        quant\_1p\_N1                     
                                                        quant\_3p\_3N1   quant\_2p\_2N1   
                                                                         quant\_1p\_N1    
                                                        quant\_2p\_2N1                    
                                       quant\_2p\_2N1                                     
                                       quant\_3p\_3N1   quant\_2p\_2N1                    
                                                        Quant\_1p\_N1                     
  ----------------- ------------------ ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- --

Table 3: Speech decoder call structure

  --------- ---------------------------- ------------------------- --------------- -------------- --------------
  decoder   Rx\_dtx\_handler                                                                      
            Dtx\_dec                     Copy                                                     
                                         Disf\_ns                  Reorder\_isf                   
                                         Serial\_parm                                             
                                         Pow2                                                     
                                         Random                                                   
                                         Dot\_product12                                           
                                         Isqrt\_n                                                 
            Serial\_parm                                                                          
            Isf\_isp                                                                              
            Isp\_Az                      Get\_isp\_pol                                            
            Copy                                                                                  
            Synthesis                    Copy                                                     
                                         Syn\_filt\_32                                            
                                         Deemph\_32                                               
                                         HP50\_12k8                                               
                                         Oversamp\_16k             Copy                           
                                                                   Up\_samp        Interpol       
                                         Random                                                   
                                         Scale\_sig                                               
                                         Dot\_product12                                           
                                         Isqrt\_n                                                 
                                         HP400\_12k8                                              
                                         Isf\_Extrapolation        Isf\_isp                       
                                         Isp\_Az                   Get\_isp\_pol                  
                                         Weight\_a                                                
                                         Syn\_filt                                                
                                         Filt\_6k\_7k              Copy                           
                                         Filt\_7k                  Copy                           
            Reset\_decoder               Set\_zero                                                
                                         Init\_Phase\_dispersion   Set\_zero                      
            Dpisf\_2s\_36b               Reorder\_isf                                             
            Dpisf\_2s\_46b               Reorder\_isf                                             
            Int\_isp                     Isp\_Az                   Get\_isp\_pol                  
            Lagconc                      insertion\_sort           Insert                         
                                         Random                                                   
            Pred\_lt4                                                                             
            Random                                                                                
            DEC\_ACELP\_2t64\_fx                                                                  
            DEC\_ACELP\_4t64\_fx         dec\_1p\_N1                                              
                                         add\_pulses                                              
                                         dec\_2p\_2N1                                             
                                         dec\_3p\_3N1              Dec\_2p\_2N1                   
                                                                   dec\_1p\_N1                    
                                         dec\_4p\_4N               dec\_4p\_4N1    dec\_2p\_2N1   
                                                                   dec\_1p\_N1                    
                                                                   Dec\_3p\_3N1    Dec\_2p\_2N1   
                                                                                   Dec\_1p\_N1    
                                                                   Dec\_2p\_2N1                   
                                         dec\_5p\_5N               dec\_3p\_3N1    Dec\_2p\_2N1   
                                                                                   Dec\_1p\_N1    
                                                                   Dec\_2p\_2N1                   
                                         dec\_6p\_6N\_2            Dec\_5p\_5N     dec\_3p\_3N1   Dec\_2p\_2N1
                                                                                                  Dec\_1p\_N1
                                                                                   dec\_2p\_2N1   
                                                                   dec\_1p\_N1                    
                                                                   dec\_4p\_4N     dec\_4p\_4N1   dec\_2p\_2N1
                                                                                   dec\_1p\_N1    
                                                                                   Dec\_3p\_3N1   Dec\_2p\_2N1
                                                                                                  Dec\_1p\_N1
                                                                                   Dec\_2p\_2N1   
                                                                   dec\_2p\_2N1                   
                                                                   dec\_3p\_3N1    Dec\_2p\_2N1   
                                                                                   Dec\_1p\_N1    
            Preemph                                                                               
            Pit\_shrp                                                                             
            D\_gain2                     Dot\_product12                                           
                                         Isqrt\_n                                                 
                                         Median5                                                  
                                         Pow2                                                     
            Scale\_sig                                                                            
            voice\_factor                Dot\_product12                                           
            Phase\_dispersion            Set\_zero                                                
            Agc2                         Isqrt                     Isqrt\_n                       
            Set\_zero                                                                             
            Dtx\_dec\_activity\_update   Copy                                                     
  --------- ---------------------------- ------------------------- --------------- -------------- --------------

4.5 Variables, constants and tables
-----------------------------------

The data types of variables and tables used in the fixed point
implementation are signed integers in 2\'s complement representation,
defined by:

\- **Word16** 16 bit variable;

\- **Word32** 32 bit variable.

### 4.5.1 Description of constants used in the C-code

This subclause contains a listing of all global constants defined in
cnst.h.

Table 5: Global constants

  ------------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  **Constant**        **Value**   **Description**
  L\_TOTAL            384         total size of speech buffer.
  L\_WINDOW           384         window size in LP analysis
  L\_NEXT             64          Look-ahead size
  L\_FRAME            256         frame size in 12.8 kHz
  L\_FRAME16k         320         frame size in 16 kHz
  L\_SUBFR            64          Subframe size in 12.8 kHz
  L\_SUBFR16k         80          Subframe size in 16 kHz
  NB\_SUBFR           4           Number of subframes
  M16k                20          order of LP filter in high-band synthesis in 6.60 mode
  M                   16          order of LP filter
  L\_FILT16k          15          Delay of down-sampling filter in 16 kHz
  L\_FILT             12          Delay of down-sampling filter in 12.8 kHz
  GP\_CLIP            15565       Pitch gain clipping
  PIT\_SHARP          27853       pitch sharpening factor
  PIT\_MIN            34          minimum pitch lag (all modes)
  PIT\_FR2            128         Minimum pitch lag with resolution ½
  PIT\_FR1\_9b        160         Minimum pitch lag with resolution for 9 bit quantization
  PIT\_FR1\_8b        92          Minimum pitch lag with resolution for 8 bit quantization
  PIT\_MAX            231         maximum pitch lag
  L\_INTERPOL         (16+1)      length of filter for interpolation
  OPL\_DECIM          2           Decimation in open-loop pitch analysis
  PREEMPH\_FAC        22282       preemphasis factor
  GAMMA1              30147       Weighting factor (numerator)
  TILT\_FAC           22282       tilt factor (denominator)
  Q\_MAX              8           scaling max for signal
  RANDOM\_INITSEED    21845       random init value
  L\_MEANBUF          3           Size of ISF buffer
  ONE\_PER\_MEANBUF   10923       Inverse of L\_MEANBUF
  ------------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------

### 4.5.2 Description of fixed tables used in the C-code

This section contains a listing of all fixed tables sorted by source
file name and table name. All table data is declared as **Word16**.

Table 6: Fixed tables

  ---------------- ------------------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  File             Table name          Length   Description
  c4t64fx.c        tipos               36       Starting points of iterations
  cod\_main.c      HP\_gain            16       High band gain table for 23.85 kbit/s mode
  cod\_main.c      interpol\_frac      4        LPC interpolation coefficients
  cod\_main.c      isp\_init           16       Isp tables for initialization
  cod\_main.c      isf\_init           16       Isf tables for initialization
  d\_gain2.c       cdown\_unusable     7        Attenuation factors for codebook gain in lost frames
  d\_gain2.c       cdown\_usable       7        Attenuation factors for codebook gain in bad frames
  d\_gain2.c       pdown\_unusable     7        Attenuation factors for adaptive codebook gain in lost frames
  d\_gain2.c       pdown\_usable       7        Attenuation factors for adaptive codebook gain in bad frames
  d\_gain2.c       pred                4        Algebraic code book gain MA predictor coefficients
  dec\_main.c      HP\_gain            16       High band gain table for 23.85 kbit/s mode
  dec\_main.c      interpol\_frac      4        LPC interpolation coefficients
  dec\_main.c      isp\_init           16       Isp tables for initialization
  dec\_main.c      isf\_init           16       Isf tables for initialization
  decim54.c        fir\_down           120      Downsample FIR filter coefficients
  decim54.c        fir\_up             120      Upsample FIR filter coefficients
  dtx.c            en\_adjust          9        Energy scaling factor for each mode during comfort noise
  grid100.tab      grid                101      Grid points of Chebyshev polynomials
  ham\_wind.tab    window              384      LP analysis window
  hp400.c          a                   3        HP filter coefficients (denominator) in higher band energy estimation
  hp400.c          b                   3        HP filter coefficients (numerator) in higher band energy estimation
  hp50.c           a                   3        HP filter coefficients (denominator) in pre-filtering
  hp50.c           b                   3        HP filter coefficients (numerator) in pre-filtering
  hp6k.c           fir\_6k\_7k         31       Bandpass FIR filter coefficients for higher band generation
  hp7k.c           fir\_7k             31       Bandpass FIR filter coefficients for higher band in 23.85 kbit/s mode
  hp\_wsp.c        a                   3        HP filter coefficients (denominator) in open-loop lag gain computation
  hp\_wsp.c        b                   3        HP filter coefficients (numerator) in open-loop lag gain computation
  isp\_isf.tab     slope               128      Table to compute acos(x) in Isp\_isf()
  isp\_isf.tab     table               129      Table to compute cos(x) in Isf\_isp()
  lag\_wind.tab    lag\_h              16       High part of the lag window table
  lag\_wind.tab    lag\_l              16       Low part of the lag window table
  lp\_dec2.c       h\_fir              5        HP FIR filter coefficients in open-loop lag search
  math\_op.c       table\_isqrt        49       Table used in inverse square root computation
  math\_op.c       table\_pow2         33       Table used in power of two computation
  p\_med\_ol.tab   corrweight          199      Weighting of the correlation function in open loop LTP search
  ph\_disp.c       ph\_imp\_low        64       Phase dispersion impulse response
  ph\_disp.c       ph\_imp\_mid        64       Phase dispersion impulse response
  pitch\_f4.c      inter4\_1           32       Interpolation filter coefficients
  pred\_lt4.c      inter4\_2           128      Interpolation filter coefficients
  q\_gain2.c       pred                4        Algebraic code book gain MA predictor coefficients
  q\_gain2.tab     t\_qua\_gain6b      2\*64    Gain quantization table for 6-bit gain quantization
  q\_gain2.tab     t\_qua\_gain7b      2\*128   Gain quantization table for 7-bit gain quantization
  qisf\_ns.tab     dico1\_isf\_noise   2\*64    1st ISF quantizer for comfort noise
  qisf\_ns.tab     dico2\_isf\_noise   3\*64    2nd ISF quantizer for comfort noise
  qisf\_ns.tab     dico3\_isf\_noise   3\*64    3rd ISF quantizer for comfort noise
  qisf\_ns.tab     dico4\_isf\_noise   4\*32    4th ISF quantizer for comfort noise
  qisf\_ns.tab     dico5\_isf\_noise   4\*32    5th ISF quantizer for comfort noise
  qisf\_ns.tab     mean\_isf\_noise    16       ISF mean for comfort noise
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico1\_isf          9\*256   1st ISF quantizer of the 1st stage
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico2\_isf          7\*256   2nd ISF quantizer of the 1st stage
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico21\_isf         3\*64    1st ISF quantizer of the 2nd stage (not the 6.60 kbit/s mode)
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico21\_isf\_36b    5\*128   1st ISF quantizer of the 2nd stage (the 6.60 kbit/s mode)
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico22\_isf         3\*128   2nd ISF quantizer of the 2nd stage (not the 6.60 kbit/s mode)
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico22\_isf\_36b    4\*128   2nd ISF quantizer of the 2nd stage (the 6.60 kbit/s mode)
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico23\_isf         3\*128   3rd ISF quantizer of the 2nd stage (not the 6.60 kbit/s mode)
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico23\_isf\_36b    7\*64    3rd ISF quantizer of the 2nd stage (the 6.60 kbit/s mode)
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico24\_isf         3\*32    4th ISF quantizer of the 2nd stage (not the 6.60 kbit/s mode)
  qpisf\_2s.tab    dico25\_isf         4\*32    5th ISF quantizer of the 2nd stage (not the 6.60 kbit/s mode)
  qpisf\_2s.tab    mean\_isf           16       ISF mean
  ---------------- ------------------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.5.3 Static variables used in the C-code

In this section two tables that specify the static variables for the
speech encoder and decoder respectively are shown. All static variables
are declared within a C **struct.**

Table 7: Speech encoder static variables

  --------------- -------------------- ------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------
  Struct name     Variable             Type\[Length\]     Description
  Coder\_State    mem\_decim           Word16\[30\]       Decimation filter memory
                  mem\_sig\_in         Word16\[6\]        Prefilter memory
                  mem\_preemph         Word16             Preemphasis filter memory
                  old\_speech          Word16\[128\]      speech buffer
                  old\_wsp             Word16\[115\]      buffer holding spectral weighted speech
                  old\_exc             Word16\[248\]      excitation vector
                  mem\_levinson        Word16\[18\]       Levinson memories
                  Ispold               Word16\[16\]       Old ISP vector
                  ispold\_q            Word16\[16\]       Old quantized ISP vector
                  past\_isfq           Word16\[16\]       past quantized ISF prediction error
                  mem\_wsp             Word16             Open-loop LTP deemphasis filter memory
                  mem\_decim2          Word16\[3\]        Open-loop LTP decimation filter memory
                  mem\_w0              Word16             weighting filter memory (applied to error signal)
                  mem\_syn             Word16\[16\]       synthesis filter memory
                  tilt\_code           Word16             Preemhasis filter memory
                  old\_wsp\_max        Word16             Open loop scaling factor
                  old\_wsp\_shift      Word16             Maximum open loop scaling factor
                  Q\_old               Word16             Old scaling factor
                  Q\_max               Word16\[2\]        Maximum scaling factor
                  gp\_clip             Word16\[2\]        memory of pitch clipping
                  qua\_gain            Word16\[4\]        Gain quantization memory
                  old\_T0\_med         Word16             weighted open loop pitch lag
                  ol\_gain             Word16             Open-loop gain
                  ada\_w               Word16             weigthing level depeding on open loop pitch gain
                  ol\_wght\_flg        Word16             switches lag weighting on and off
                  old\_ol\_lag         Word16\[5\]        Open loop lag history
                  hp\_wsp\_mem         Word16\[9\]        Open-loop lag gain filter memory
                  old\_hp\_wsp         Word16\[243\]      Open-loop lag
                  vadSt                VadVars\*          see below in this table
                  dtx\_encSt           dtx\_encState\*    see below in this table
                  first\_frame         Word16             First frame indicator
                  Isfold               Word16\[16\]       Old ISF vector
                  L\_gc\_thres         Word16             Noise enhancer threshold
                  mem\_syn\_hi         Word16\[16\]       synthesis filter memory (most significant word)
                  mem\_syn\_lo         Word16\[16\]       synthesis filter memory (least significant word)
                  mem\_deemph          Word16             Deemphasis filter memory
                  mem\_sig\_out        Word16\[6\]        HP filter memory in the synthesis
                  mem\_hp400           Word16\[6\]        HP filter memory
                  mem\_oversamp        Word16\[2\*12\]    Oversampling filter memory
                  mem\_syn\_hf         Word16\[16\]       Higher band synthesis filter memory
                  mem\_hf              Word16\[30\]       Estimated BP filter memory (23.85 kbit/s mode)
                  mem\_hf2             Word16\[30\]       Input BP filter memory (23.85 kbit/s mode)
                  mem\_hf3             Word16\[30\]       Input LP filter memory (23.85 kbit/s mode)
                  seed2                Word16             Random generation seed
                  disp\_mem            Word16\[8\]        Phase dispersion memory
                  vad\_hist            Word16             VAD history
                  Gain\_alpha          Word16             Higher band gain weighting factor (23.85 kbit/s mode)
  dtx\_encState   Isf\_hist            Word16\[128\]      LSP history (8 frames)
                  Log\_en\_hist        Word16\[8\]        logarithmic frame energy history (8 frames)
                  Hist\_ptr            Word16             pointer to the cyclic history vectors
                  Log\_en\_index       Word16             Index for logarithmic energy
                  Cng\_seed            Word16             Comfort noise excitation seed
                  D                    Word16\[28\]       ISF history distance matrix
                  sumD                 Word16\[8\]        Sum of ISF history distances
                  dtxHangoverCount     Word16             is decreased in DTX hangover period
                  decAnaElapsedCount   Word16             counter for elapsed speech frames in DTX
  vadState1       bckr\_est            Word16\[12\]       background noise estimate
                  ave\_level           Word16\[12\]       averaged input components for stationary estimation
                  old\_level           Word16\[12\]       input levels of the previous frame
                  sub\_level           Word16\[12\]       input levels calculated at the end of a frame (lookahead)
                  a\_data5             Word16\[5\]\[2\]   memory for the filter bank
                  a\_data3             Word16\[6\]        memory for the filter bank
                  burst\_count         Word16             counts length of a speech burst
                  Hang\_count          Word16             hangover counter
                  Stat\_count          Word16             stationary counter
                  Vadreg               Word16             15 flags for intermediate VAD decisions
                  Tone\_flag           Word16             15 flags for tone detection
                  sp\_est\_cnt         Word16             Speech level estimation counter
                  Sp\_max              Word16             Maximum signal level
                  sp\_max\_cnt         Word16             Maximum level estimation counter
                  Speech\_level        Word16             Speech level
                  prev\_pow\_sum       Word16             Power of previous frame
  --------------- -------------------- ------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------

Table 8: Speech decoder static variables

  ---------------- ------------------------ ----------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Struct name      Variable                 Type\[Length\]    Description
  Decoder\_State   old\_exc                 Word16\[248\]     excitation vector
                   ispold                   Word16\[16\]      Old ISP vector
                   isfold                   Word16\[16\]      Old ISF vector
                   isf\_buf                 Word16\[48\]      ISF vector history
                   past\_isfq               Word16\[16\]      past quantized ISF prediction error
                   tilt\_code               Word16            Preemhasis filter memory
                   Q\_old                   Word16            Old scaling factor
                   Qsubfr                   Word16            Scaling factor history
                   L\_gc\_thres             Word16            Noise enhancer threshold
                   mem\_syn\_hi             Word16\[16\]      synthesis filter memory (most significant word)
                   mem\_syn\_lo             Word16\[16\]      synthesis filter memory (least significant word)
                   mem\_deemph              Word16            Deemphasis filter memory
                   mem\_sig\_out            Word16\[6\]       HP filter memory in the synthesis
                   mem\_oversamp            Word16\[24\]      Oversampling filter memory
                   mem\_syn\_hf             Word16\[20\]      Higher band synthesis filter memory
                   mem\_hf                  Word16\[30\]      Estimated BP filter memory (23.85 kbit/s mode)
                   mem\_hf2                 Word16\[30\]      Input BP filter memory (23.85 kbit/s mode)
                   mem\_hf3                 Word16\[30\]      Input LP filter memory (23.85 kbit/s mode)
                   seed                     Word16            Random code generation seed for bad frames
                   seed2                    Word16            Random generation seed for higher band
                   old\_T0                  Word16            Old LTP lag (integer part)
                   old\_T0\_frac            Word16            Old LTP lag (fraction part)
                   lag\_hist                Word16\[5\]       LTP lag history
                   dec\_gain                Word16\[23\]      Gain decoding memory
                   seed3                    Word16            Random LTP lag generation seed for bad frames
                   disp\_mem                Word16\[8\]       Phase dispersion memory
                   mem\_hp400               Word16\[6\]       HP filter memory
                   prev\_bfi                Word16            Previous BFI
                   state                    Word16            BGH state machine memory
                   first\_frame             Word16            First frame indicator
                   dtx\_decSt               dtx\_decState\*   see below in this table
                   Vad\_hist                Word16            VAD history
  dtx\_decState    Since\_last\_sid         Word16            number of frames since last SID frame
                   true\_sid\_period\_inv   Word16            inverse of true SID update rate
                   log\_en                  Word16            logarithmic frame energy
                   old\_log\_en             Word16            previous value of log\_en
                   isf                      Word16\[16\]      ISF vector
                   Isf\_old                 Word16\[16\]      Previous ISF vector
                   Cng\_seed                Word16            Comfort noise excitation seed
                   Isf\_hist                Word16\[128\]     ISF vector history (8 frames)
                   Log\_en\_hist            Word16\[8\]       logarithmic frame energy history
                   Hist\_ptr                Word16            index to beginning of LSF history
                   dtxHangoverCount         Word16            counts down in hangover period
                   DecAnaElapsedCount       Word16            counts elapsed speech frames after DTX
                   sid\_frame               Word16            flags SID frames
                   valid\_data              Word16            flags SID frames containing valid data
                   log\_en\_adjust          Word16            mode-dependent frame energy adjustment
                   dtxHangoverAdded         Word16            flags hangover period at end of speech
                   dtxGlobalState           Word16            DTX state flags
                   data\_updated            Word16            flags CNI updates
  ---------------- ------------------------ ----------------- --------------------------------------------------

5 Homing procedure
==================

The principles of the homing procedures are described in \[2\]. This
specification only includes a detailed description of the 9 decoder
homing frames. For each AMR-WB codec mode, the corresponding decoder
homing frame has a fixed set of parameters. The parameters in serial
format are packed into parameters in 15-bit-long format where the first
serial bit is inserted into most significant bit in the 15-bit-long
format. These 15-bit-long parameters do not represent real speech
parameters, but they decrease memory consumption compared to the speech
parameters. Table 9 shows the homing frame in 15-bit-long format for
different modes. In the decoder, the received speech parameters in
serial format are first converted into 15-bit-long format. Then the
obtained parameters are compared against the homing frame table values
(Table 9).

Table 9: Table values for the decoder homing frame in 15-bit-long format
for different modes

  ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Mode**   **Value (MSB=b0)**
  0          3168, 29954, 29213, 16121, 64, 13440, 30624, 16430, 19008
  1          3168, 31665, 9943, 9123, 15599, 4358, 20248, 2048, 17040, 27787, 16816, 13888
  2          3168, 31665, 9943, 9128, 3647, 8129, 30930, 27926, 18880, 12319, 496, 1042, 4061, 20446, 25629, 28069, 13948
  3          3168, 31665, 9943, 9131, 24815, 655, 26616, 26764, 7238, 19136, 6144, 88, 4158, 25733, 30567, 30494, 221, 20321, 17823
  4          3168, 31665, 9943, 9131, 24815, 700, 3824, 7271, 26400, 9528, 6594, 26112, 108, 2068, 12867, 16317, 23035, 24632, 7528, 1752, 6759, 24576
  5          3168, 31665, 9943, 9135, 14787, 14423, 30477, 24927, 25345, 30154, 916, 5728, 18978, 2048, 528, 16449, 2436, 3581, 23527, 29479, 8237, 16810, 27091, 19052, 0
  6          3168, 31665, 9943, 9129, 8637, 31807, 24646, 736, 28643, 2977, 2566, 25564, 12930, 13960, 2048, 834, 3270, 4100, 26920, 16237, 31227, 17667, 15059, 20589, 30249, 29123, 0
  7          3168, 31665, 9943, 9132, 16748, 3202, 28179, 16317, 30590, 15857, 19960, 8818, 21711, 21538, 4260, 16690, 20224, 3666, 4194, 9497, 16320, 15388, 5755, 31551, 14080, 3574, 15932, 50, 23392, 26053, 31216
  8          3168, 31665, 9943, 9134, 24776, 5857, 18475, 28535, 29662, 14321, 16725, 4396, 29353, 10003, 17068, 20504, 720, 0, 8465, 12581, 28863, 24774, 9709, 26043, 7941, 27649, 13965, 15236, 18026, 22047, 16681, 3968
  ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6 File formats
==============

This section describes the file formats used by the encoder and decoder
programs. The test sequences defined in \[1 also use the file formats
described here.

6.1 Speech file (encoder input / decoder output)
------------------------------------------------

Speech files read by the encoder and written by the decoder consist of
16-bit words where each word contains a 14-bit, left aligned speech
sample. The byte order depends on the host architecture (e.g. MSByte
first on SUN workstations, LSByte first on PCs etc.). Both the encoder
and the decoder program process complete frames (of 320 samples) only.

This means that the encoder will only process *n* frames if the length
of the input file is *n\*320 + k* words, while the files produced by the
decoder will always have a length of *n\*320* words.

6.2 Mode control file (encoder input)
-------------------------------------

The encoder program can optionally read in a mode control file which
specifies the encoding mode for each frame of speech processed. The file
is a text file containing one number per speech frame. Each line
contains one of the mode numbers 0-8.

6.3 Parameter bitstream file (encoder output / decoder input)
-------------------------------------------------------------

The files produced by the speech encoder/expected by the speech decoder
contain an arbitrary number of frames in the following available
formats.

NOTE ON DEFAULT 3GPP AND ITU BITSTREAM FORMATS:

ITU stream format gives very limited possibilities to distinguish
NO\_DATA and SID\_FIRST frame types at the beginning of a stream. In
some very limited cases for which some instance between encoder and
decoder cuts of the first hangover period frames (e.g. handovers,
editing of the stream), the output of the decoder is different depending
on the stream format, ITU or default 3GPP.

### Default 3GPP format:

This is the default format used in 3GPP. This format shall be used when
the codec is tested against the test vectors.

  ----------------------- ------------- ------ ---- ---- ----- -----
  TYPE\_OF\_FRAME\_TYPE   FRAME\_TYPE   MODE   B1   B2   ...   Bnn
  ----------------------- ------------- ------ ---- ---- ----- -----

Each box corresponds to one Word16 value in the bitstream file, for a
total of 3+nn words or 6+2nn bytes per frame, where nn is the number of
encoded bits in the frame. Each encoded bit is represented as follows:
Bit 0 = 0xff81, Bit 1 = 0x007f. The fields have the following meaning:

TYPE\_OF\_FRAME\_TYPE transmit frame type, which is one of\
TX\_TYPE (0x6b21)\
RX\_TYPE (0x6b20)

If TYPE\_OF\_FRAME\_TYPE is TX\_TYPE,

FRAME\_TYPE transmit frame type, which is one of\
TX\_SPEECH (0x0000)\
TX\_SID\_FIRST (0x0001)\
TX\_SID\_UPDATE (0x0002)\
TX\_NO\_DATA (0x0003)

If TYPE\_OF\_FRAME\_TYPE is RX\_TYPE,

FRAME\_TYPE transmit frame type, which is one of\
RX\_SPEECH\_GOOD (0x0000)\
RX\_SPEECH\_PROBABLY\_DEGRADED (0x0001)\
RX\_SPEECH\_LOST (0x0002)\
RX\_SPEECH\_BAD (0x0003)\
RX\_SID\_FIRST (0x0004)\
RX\_SID\_UPDATE (0x0005)\
RX\_SID\_BAD (0x0006)\
RX\_NO\_DATA (0x0007)

B0...B2nn speech encoder parameter bits (i.e. the bitstream itself).
Each B*x* either has the value 0x0081 (for bit 0) or 0x007F (for bit 1).

MODE\_INFO encoding mode information, which is one of\
6.60 kbit/s mode (0x0000)\
8.85 kbit/s mode (0x0001)\
12.65 kbit/s mode (0x0002)\
14.25 kbit/s mode (0x0003)\
15.85 kbit/s mode (0x0004)\
18.25 kbit/s mode (0x0005)\
19.85 kbit/s mode (0x0006)\
23.05 kbit/s mode (0x0007)\
23.85 kbit/s mode (0x0008)

As indicated in section 6.1 above, the byte order depends on the host
architecture.

### ITU format (activated with command line parameter -itu)

  ------------ -------------- ---- ---- ----- -----
  SYNC\_WORD   DATA\_LENGTH   B1   B2   ...   Bnn
  ------------ -------------- ---- ---- ----- -----

Each box corresponds to one Word16 value in the bitstream file, for a
total of 2+nn words or 4+2nn bytes per frame, where nn is the number of
encoded bits in the frame. Each encoded bit is represented as follows:
Bit 0 = 0x007f, Bit 1 = 0x0081. The fields have the following meaning:

SYNC\_WORD Word to ensure correct frame synchronization between the
encoder and the decoder. It is also used to indicate the occurrences of
bad frames.

In the encoder output: (0x6b21)\
In the decoder input: Good frames (0x6b21)\
Bad frames (0x6b20)

DATA\_LENGTH Length of the speech data. Codec mode and frame type is
extracted in the decoder using this parameter:

+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| **DATA\    | **\               | **\          | **\               |
| \_LENGTH** | PREVIOUS FRAME**  | CODEC MODE** | FRAMETYPE**       |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 0          | RX\_SPEECH\_GOOD/ | DTX          | RX\_SID\_FIRST    |
|            | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |              |                   |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 0          | OTHER THAN        | DTX          | RX\_NO\_DATA      |
|            |                   |              |                   |
|            | R                 |              |                   |
|            | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |              |                   |
|            | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |              |                   |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 35         | \-                | DTX          | RX\_SID\_UPDATE   |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 132        | \-                | 6.60 kbit/s  | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 177        | \-                | 8.85 kbit/s  | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 253        | \-                | 12.65 kbit/s | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 285        | \-                | 14.25 kbit/s | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 317        | \-                | 15.85 kbit/s | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 365        | \-                | 18.25 kbit/s | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 397        | \-                | 19.85 kbit/s | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 461        | \-                | 23.05 kbit/s | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+
| 477        | \-                | 23.85 kbit/s | R                 |
|            |                   |              | X\_SPEECH\_GOOD/\ |
|            |                   |              | RX\_SPEECH\_LOST  |
+------------+-------------------+--------------+-------------------+

### MIME/file storage format (activated with command line parameter -mime)

Detailed description of the AMR-WB single channel MIME/file storage
format can be found in \[7\] (sections 5.1 and 5.3). This format is used
e.g. by the Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS).

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  Change history                                                                                                                                              
  **Date**         **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                               **Old**   **New**
  03-2001          11           SP-010083                         Version 2.0.0 provided for approval                                                         5.0.0
  06-2001          12           SP-010307      001      1         Unnecessary printing in Az\_isp-function                                          5.0.0     5.1.0
  06-2001          12           SP-010307      002      1         Overflow in isp\_az.c                                                             5.0.0     5.1.0
  06-2001          12           SP-010307      003      1         Error in the ISF extrapolation in 6.60 kbit/s mode                                5.0.0     5.1.0
  06-2001          12           SP-010307      004      1         14-bit masking to decoder                                                         5.0.0     5.1.0
  06-2001          12           SP-010307      005      1         Correction of the homing function                                                 5.0.0     5.1.0
  06-2001          12           SP-010307      006      1         Fixed codebook initialisation                                                     5.0.0     5.1.0
  06-2001                                                         Minor editorial to cover page                                                     5.1.0     5.1.1
  09-2001          13           SP-010455      007                Error in the C-code of the encoder homing function                                5.1.1     5.2.0
  09-2001          13           SP-010455      008                Inconsistency in the file format description                                      5.1.1     5.2.0
  12-2001          14           SP-010699      009                Incorrect mode usage during DTX                                                   5.2.0     5.3.0
  12-2001          14           SP-010699      010                Correction of decoder homing function for 23.85 kbit/s mode                       5.2.0     5.3.0
  03-2002          15           SP-020081      011      2         Correction of mode reading and memory usage                                       5.3.0     5.4.0
  03-2002          15           SP-020081      012                Correction of pitch calculation of AMR-WB encoder                                 5.3.0     5.4.0
  03-2002          15           SP-020081      013                Error concealment of high band gain in 23.85 kbit/s mode                          5.3.0     5.4.0
  12-2002          18           SP-020692      014                Correction of ambiguous expression in the AMR-WB C-Code                           5.4.0     5.5.0
  03-2003          19           SP-030089      015      2         **Harmonization of 3GPP TS 26.173 and ITU-T G.722.2 C-codes**                     5.5.0     5.6.0
  03-2003          19           SP-030089      016                **Correction for handling of RX\_NO\_DATA frames**                                5.5.0     5.6.0
  06-2003          20           SP-030216      017      1         **MMS compatible input/output option for fixed-point AMR-WB source code**         5.6.0     5.7.0
                                                                  **Added file containing the C-code accidentally omitted from previous version**   5.7.0     5.7.1
  09-2003          21           SP-030446      019                Possible decoder LPC coefficients overflow                                        5.7.1     5.8.0
  12-2004          26           SP-040844      020      1         Incorrect definition of vector nb\_of\_bits                                       5.8.0     6.0.0
  12-2006          34           SP-060846      0023     1         Correction to bug in ITU-T bitstream format in the presence of frame erasures     6.0.0     6.1.0
  03-2007          35           SP-070023      0025     1         Correct text specification to be aligned with the C-code                          6.1.0     6.2.0
  03-2007          35           SP-070029      0026               Correction in AMR decoder to avoid division by zero in RX-DTX Handling            6.2.0     7.0.0
  09-2007          37           SP-070626      0029     1         Robust operation of AMRWB-decoder                                                 7.0.0     7.1.0
  12-2008          42                                             Version for Release 8                                                             7.1.0     8.0.0
  12-2009          46                                             Version for Release 9                                                             8.0.0     9.0.0
  03-2011          51                                             Version for Release 10                                                            9.0.0     10.0.0
  09-2012          57                                             Version for Release 11                                                            10.0.0    11.0.0
  09-2014          65                                             Version for Release 12                                                            11.0.0    12.0.0
  03-2015          67           SP-150094      0030     2         Correction on AMR-WB (noise energy initialization)                                12.0.0    12.1.0
  03-2015          67           SP-150094      0031     2         Correction on AMR-WB (out-of-bound memory access)                                 12.0.0    12.1.0
  12-2015          70                                             Version for Release 13                                                            12.1.0    13.0.0
  03-2016          71           SP-160077      0032     1         Correction of AMR-WB                                                              13.0.0    13.1.0
  ---------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                               
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                  **New version**
  2017-03              75                                                     Version for Release 14                               14.0.0
  2017-12              78            SP-170822   0033     \-        F         Correcting capitalizations of file and table names   14.1.0
  2018-06              80                                 \-        F         Version for Release 15                               15.0.0
  2018-12              82            SP-180973   0034     \-        F         Correction of table names                            15.1.0
  2020-07              \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                       **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------
