![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[4](#introduction)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#objective-test-methodologies-for-immersive-audio-systems)

[6](#objective-test-methodologies-for-assessment-of-immersive-audio-systems-in-the-sending-direction)

[6](#diffuse-field-send-frequency-response-for-scene-based-audio)

[6](#introduction-1)

[7](#definition)

[8](#test-method-with-periphonic-array)

[8](#test-conditions)

[8](#measurement)

[9](#test-method-with-loudspeaker-array-and-turn-table)

[9](#test-conditions-1)

[9](#measurement-1)

[10](#directional-response-measurement-for-scene-based-audio)

[10](#definition-1)

[10](#test-conditions-2)

[11](#measurement-2)

[11](#objective-test-methodologies-for-assessment-of-immersive-audio-systems-in-the-receiving-direction)

[11](#headset-binaural-diffuse-field-receive-frequency-response-for-scene-based-audio)

[11](#introduction-2)

[11](#definition-2)

[11](#test-conditions-3)

[11](#measurement-3)

[12](#nominal-system-sensitivity-in-receive-direction-for-channel-based-audio)

[12](#introduction-3)

[12](#definition-3)

[12](#test-conditions-4)

[12](#measurement-4)

[13](#motion-to-sound-latency-in-dynamic-binaural-rendering-systems)

[13](#introduction-4)

[13](#requirements)

[14](#calibration)

[14](#evaluation-environment)

[15](#data-acquisition)

[15](#data-analysis)

[18](#annex-a-normative-order-dependent-directions)

[22](#annex-b-normative-directions-in-gaussian-spherical-grid)

[22](#b.1-definition)

[22](#b.2-example-loudspeaker-array)

[23](#annex-c-informative-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2
References 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Symbols 3.3 Abbreviations 4 Objective Test Methodologies for Immersive
Audio Systems 4.1 Objective Test Methodologies for Assessment of
Immersive Audio Systems in the Sending Direction 4.1.1 Diffuse-field
Send Frequency Response for Scene-based Audio 4.1.1.1 Introduction
4.1.1.2 Definition 4.1.1.3 Test method with periphonic array 4.1.1.3.1
Test Conditions 4.1.1.3.2 Measurement 4.1.1.4 Test method with
loudspeaker array and turn table 4.1.1.4.1 Test Conditions 4.1.1.4.2
Measurement 4.1.2 Directional response measurement for scene-based audio
4.1.2.1 Definition 4.1.2.2 Test conditions 4.1.2.3 Measurement 4.2
Objective Test Methodologies for Assessment of Immersive Audio Systems
in the Receiving Direction 4.2.1 Headset Binaural Diffuse-field Receive
frequency response for Scene-based audio 4.2.1.1 Introduction 4.2.1.2
Definition 4.2.1.3 Test Conditions 4.2.1.4 Measurement 4.2.2 Nominal
System Sensitivity in Receive Direction for Channel-based audio 4.2.2.1
Introduction 4.2.2.2 Definition 4.2.2.3 Test Conditions 4.2.2.4
Measurement 4.2.3 Motion to Sound Latency in Dynamic Binaural Rendering
Systems 4.2.3.1 Introduction 4.2.3.2 Requirements 4.2.3.3 Calibration
4.2.3.4 Evaluation Environment 4.2.3.5 Data acquisition 4.2.3.6 Data
Analysis Annex A (normative): Order dependent directions Annex B
(normative): Directions in Gaussian spherical grid B.1 Definition B.2
Example loudspeaker array Annex C (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

Audio is a key component of an immersive multimedia experience and 3GPP
systems are expected to deliver immersive audio with a high Quality of
Experience. However, industry agreed methods to assess the Quality of
Experience for immersive audio are relatively few and the present
document seeks to address this gap by providing objective test methods
for the assessment of immersive audio.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies objective test methodologies for 3GPP
immersive audio systems including channel based, object based,
scene-based and hybrids of these formats. The subjective evaluation
methods described in the present document are applicable to audio
capture, coding, transmission and rendering as indicated in their
corresponding clauses.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] J. Fliege und U. Maier: \"A two-stage approach for computing
cubature formulae for the sphere,\" Dortmund University, 1999.

\[3\] ISO 3745 - Annex A: \"Acoustics - Determination of sound power
levels and sound energy levels of noise sources using sound pressure \--
Precision methods for anechoic rooms and hemi-anechoic rooms - Annex A:
General procedures for qualification of anechoic and hemi-anechoic
rooms\".

\[4\] ISO 1996 Acoustics: \"Description, measurement and assessment of
environmental noise\".

\[5\] ANSI S1.4: \"Specifications for Sound Level Meters\".

\[6\] ISO 3: \"Preferred numbers -- Series of preferred numbers\".

\[7\] B. Rafaely, "Analysis and design of spherical microphone arrays,"
IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio Processing, no. 13, 2005, pp. 135
-- 143

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**spherical coordinates:** The coordinate system used in this document
is defined such that the x-axis points to the front, the y-axis to the
left and the z-axis to the top (see Figure 0). Spherical coordinates are
the distance ![](media/image3.png){width="6.666666666666667e-2in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} from the origin, the azimuth
![](media/image4.png){width="0.1in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} in
mathematical positive orientation (counter-clockwise) and the elevation
angle ![](media/image5.png){width="8.333333333333333e-2in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} relative to the z-axis (with 0 degrees
pointing to the equator and +90 degrees pointing to the North pole).

![](media/image6.wmf){width="2.707638888888889in"
height="2.5319444444444446in"}

Figure 0: Spherical coordinate system

**dBFS:** dB full-scale, where 0 dBFS refers to the RMS level of a
DC-free sinusoidal signal exercising the full scale of the digital
interface/file.

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

**LA~eq~** the sound level in decibels equivalent to the total
A-weighted sound energy measured over a stated period of time.

![](media/image4.png){width="0.1in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
azimuth

![](media/image5.png){width="8.333333333333333e-2in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} elevation

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

4 Objective Test Methodologies for Immersive Audio Systems
==========================================================

4.1 Objective Test Methodologies for Assessment of Immersive Audio Systems in the Sending Direction
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.1.1 Diffuse-field Send Frequency Response for Scene-based Audio

#### 4.1.1.1 Introduction

This test is applicable to UEs capturing scene-based audio (e.g. First
and Higher Order Ambisonics).

NOTE: Currently, the test method uses a periphonic loudspeaker array for
generation of a diffuse-field. Additional loudspeaker setups for the
derivation of the diffuse sound field are under consideration.

**General test conditions**

**Free-field propagation conditions**

\- The test environment shall contain a free-field volume, wherein
free-field sound propagation conditions shall be observed.

\- The free-field sound propagation conditions shall be observed down to
a frequency of 200 Hz or less.

\- Qualification of the free-field volume shall be performed using the
method and limits for deviation from ideal free-field conditions
described in \[3\].

**Test environment noise floor**

Within the *free-field volume*, the equivalent continuous sound level of
the test environment in each 1/3^rd^ octave band, *L~eq~(f),* shall be
less than the limits of the NR10 curve, following the noise rating
determination procedures in \[4\].

#### 4.1.1.2 Definition

The Diffuse-field Send Frequency Response for Scene-based Audio is
defined as the transfer function,
![](media/image7.png){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"}, between:

![](media/image8.png){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, the estimated
sound pressure magnitude spectrum obtained from a diffuse-field
scene-based audio capture and reference synthesis at the geometric
center of a *free-field volume*; and

![](media/image9.png){width="0.46875in" height="0.17708333333333334in"},
the sound pressure magnitude spectrum obtained from a diffuse-field
microphone recording the same diffuse field at the origin of a spherical
coordinate system.

Figure 1 describes a typical block diagram for the scene-based audio
sending direction with measurement points when using a periphonic
loudspeaker array.

Figure 1: Scene-based audio capture block diagram for sending direction
measurements

**Definition of Equivalent Spatial Domain**

The equivalent spatial domain representation, **w**(t)**,** of a *N^th^*
order Ambisonics soundfield representation **c**(t) is obtained by
rendering **c(**t) to *K* virtual loudspeaker signals *w~j~* (*t*), 1 ≤
*j* ≤ *K*, with *K =* (*N+1*)^2^. The respective virtual loudspeaker
positions are expressed by means of a spherical coordinate system, where
each position lies on the unit sphere, i.e., a radius of 1. Hence, the
positions can be equivalently expressed by order-dependent directions
***Ω***~j~^(*N*)^=(*θ~j~*^(*N*)^, *φ ~j~*^(*N*)^), 1 ≤ *j* ≤ *K,* where
*θ~j~*^(*N*)^ and *φ ~j~*^(*N*)^ denote the inclinations and azimuths,
respectively. These directions are defined according to \[2\] and
reproduced in Annex B for convenience.

The rendering of ![](media/image11.png){width="0.2708333333333333in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}into the equivalent spatial domain can be
formulated as a matrix multiplication:

**w(*t*) = (Ψ*^(N,N)^*)^-1^ ⋅c(t),**

where ![](media/image12.png){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}(⋅)^-1^ denotes the inversion.

The matrix **Ψ**^(*N,N*)^ of order *N* with respect to the
order-dependent directions ***Ω***~j~^(*N*)^ is defined by:

**Ψ^(*N,N*)^ := \[S~1~^(*N*)^ S~2~^(*N*)^ *...* S*~K~*^(N)^\],**

with:

![](media/image13.png){width="7.291666666666667e-2in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}**~j~^(*N*)^ :=**
\[*S*~0~^0^(***Ω***~j~^(*N*)^) *S*~-1~^-1^(***Ω***~j~^(*N*)^)
*S*~-1~^0^(***Ω***~j~^(*N*)^) *S*~-1~^1^(***Ω***~j~^(*N*)^)
*S*~-1~^1^(***Ω***~j~^(*N*)^) ... S*~N~^N^*(***Ω***~j~^(*N*)^)\]^*T*^ ,

where S~n~^m^(⋅) represents the real valued spherical harmonics of the
order n and degree m.

The matrix **Ψ***^(N,N)^* is invertible so that the HOA representation
![](media/image14.png){width="0.23958333333333334in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}***c***(*t*) can be converted back from
the equivalent spatial domain by:

**c**(t) = **Ψ***^(N,N)^*·**w**(t)

#### 4.1.1.3 Test method with periphonic array

##### 4.1.1.3.1 Test Conditions

**Periphonic loudspeaker array**

a\) A *periphonic loudspeaker array* shall be placed within the
free-field volume with the geometric center of the *periphonic
loudspeaker array* coinciding with the geometric center of the
free-field volume.

b\) The *periphonic loudspeaker array* shall have a radius greater or
equal than 1 meter.

c\) The *periphonic loudspeaker array* shall be composed of (*N*+1)^2^
coaxial loudspeaker elements. Each of the (*N*+1)^2^ coaxial loudspeaker
elements shall be equalized (if necessary) and level compensated to
conform with the operational room response curve limits given in \[5\]
Section 8.3.4.1. *N* should be equal or greater than the maximum
ambisonics order supported by the device under test (DUT), e.g. *N\>=*4
for a DUT supporting 4^th^ order Ambisonics capture.

d\) The (*N*+1)^2^ coaxial loudspeaker elements shall be positioned
according to the azimuth and elevation coordinates given in Annex B.

e\) All coaxial loudspeaker elements shall be oriented such that their
acoustic axis intersects at the geometric center of the *free field
volume*.

f\) The radius of each coaxial loudspeaker element shall be such that,
at the geometric center of the *free-field volume*, the far field
approximation for the coaxial loudspeaker axial pressure amplitude decay
holds true.

##### 4.1.1.3.2 Measurement

**Reference Spectrum measurement for periphonic loudspeaker array
method**

a\) A diffuse-field / random incidence, or multi-field microphone is
mounted in the *free-field volume* such that the tip of the microphone
corresponds to the geometric center of the *free-field volume* and the
geometric center of the *periphonic loudspeaker array*.

NOTE 1: Diffuse-field / random incidence microphones, are described in
\[5\].

b\) (*N*+1)^2^ decorrelated pink noise signals are played simultaneously
over each of the (*N*+1)^2^ coaxial loudspeakers of the *periphonic
loudspeaker array*.

c\) The playback level is adjusted such that the *LAeq*, measured over a
30s time window at the geometric center of the *periphonic loudspeaker
array,* is equal to 78dBSPL(A) ± 0.5dB.

d\) The reference sound pressure at the geometric center of the
*fr*e*e-field volume*, *p(t)*, is captured with the diffuse-field or
multi-field microphone.

e\) The magnitude spectrum of the reference sound pressure, *P(f)*, is
calculated for the 1/12^th^ octave intervals as given by the R40 series
of preferred numbers in \[6\].

NOTE 2: For ideal (calibrated) loudspeakers, the *P(f)* spectra should
have equal energy in each 1/12^th^ octave intervals.

**Estimated Spectrum measurement**

a\) The scene-based audio capture device under test is mounted in the
*free-field volume* such that its geometric center coincides with the
geometric center of *free-field volume* and the geometric center of the
*periphonic loudspeaker array*.

b\) (*N*+1)^2^ decorrelated pink noise signals are played simultaneously
over each of the (*N*+1)^2^ coaxial loudspeakers of the *periphonic
loudspeaker array*. The pink noise signals shall be identical to the
signals used for the reference spectrum measurement.

c\) The B-format scene-based audio format representation (compressed or
uncompressed, depending on the use case being tested) is stored for
offline analysis.

d\) The B-format scene-based audio format representation is uncompressed
(if necessary) and converted to an *equivalent spatial domain
representation* of order *N~DUT~* (B-Format to ESD conversion in Figure
1), where *N~DUT~* corresponds to the Ambisonics order of the device
under test.

e\) ![](media/image15.png){width="0.28125in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"}, the estimate of the sound field at the
geometric center of *the free-field volume* and *periphonic loudspeaker
array*, is synthesized using the *equivalent spatial domain
representation* of order *N~DUT~*.

NOTE 3: ![](media/image15.png){width="0.28125in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"} can be taken from the W component of the
B-Format signal, as an alternative to implementing the B-Format to ESD
conversion in step d).

f\) The magnitude spectrum of the estimated sound pressure,
![](media/image8.png){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, is calculated
for the 1/12^th^ octave intervals as given by the R40 series of
preferred numbers in \[6\].

**Calculation of send frequency response for scene-based audio**

The send frequency response for scene-based audio, *G(f)*, is calculated
as ![](media/image16.png){width="0.6770833333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}.

#### 4.1.1.4 Test method with loudspeaker array and turn table

##### 4.1.1.4.1 Test Conditions

**Loudspeaker array**

a\) A calibrated *loudspeaker array* shall be placed within the
*free-field volume*.

b\) The *loudspeaker array* shall comprise one or several semi-arcs
having a radius greater or equal than 1 meter. The radius shall be
reported.

c\) The *loudspeaker array* shall be composed of *N+1* loudspeaker
elements. The ambisonic order *N* shall be reported.

d\) Each loudspeaker in the array shall be calibrated with a frequency
response of \[at least 100 Hz-20,000 Hz\] and minimum phase response.

e\) The coordinates of the loudspeaker elements are defined according to
a Gaussian spherical grid \[7\] of order *N*. Directions shall comply
with Annex B.1 and the *N+1* elevations of the spherical grid shall be
reported.

**Turn table**

a\) A turn table with a resolution of 0.5 degrees shall be used. The
rotation axis of the turn table and the vertical axis of the semi-arcs
shall be aligned The turn table shall be adjusted in height so that the
device under test is positioned at the geometric center of the
*loudspeaker array*.

b\) For measurement, an azimuth step of 180/(*N*+1) degrees shall be
used.

##### 4.1.1.4.2 Measurement

**Reference Spectrum measurement**

a\) A diffuse-field / random incidence, or multi-field microphone is
mounted in the *free-field volume* such that the tip of the microphone
corresponds to the geometric center of the *free-field volume* and the
geometric center of the *loudspeaker array*.

> NOTE 1: Diffuse-field / random incidence microphones, are described in
> \[5\].

Repeat steps b-c) with an azimuth angular resolution of 180/(*N*+1)
degrees:

b\) An exponential sweep sine signal is played over each of the *N*+1
loudspeakers of the *loudspeaker array*.

c\) The impulse response at the geometric center of the *loudspeaker
array* is measured for each loudspeaker position.

d\) The magnitude spectrum of the reference sound pressure, *P(f)*, is
calculated for the 1/12^th^ octave intervals as given by the R40 series
of preferred numbers in \[6\].

NOTE 2: For ideal (calibrated) loudspeakers, the *P(f)* spectra should
have equal energy in each 1/12^th^ octave intervals.

**Estimated Spectrum measurement**

a\) The scene-based audio capture device under test is mounted in the
*free-field volume* such that its geometric center coincides with the
geometric center of *free-field volume* and the geometric center of the
*loudspeaker array*.

b\) Repeat steps b-c) with an azimuth angular resolution of 180/(*N*+1)
degrees::

c\) An exponential sweep sine signal is played over each of the *N*+1
loudspeakers of the *loudspeaker array*. The sweep signals shall be
identical to the signals used for the reference spectrum measurement.

d\) The impulse response at the geometric center of the *loudspeaker
array* is measured for each loudspeaker position.

e\) The magnitude spectrum of the estimated sound pressure,
![](media/image8.png){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, is calculated
for the 1/12^th^ octave intervals as given by the R40 series of
preferred numbers in \[6\].

**Calculation of send frequency response for scene-based audio**

The send frequency response for scene-based audio, *G(f)*, is calculated
as ![](media/image16.png){width="0.6770833333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}.

Due to practical constraints (e.g. reflections on turn table),
measurements for specific elevations (e.g. \< - degrees) may be
unreliable and discarded. In this case, the above measurement procedure
may be conducted in two phases by measuring only directions for one
hemisphere (e.g. top hemisphere, with elevations \>0) in each phase. The
device under test shall be flipped upside down between the two phases,
and this two-phase approach shall be reported.

### 4.1.2 Directional response measurement for scene-based audio

#### 4.1.2.1 Definition

The directional response for scene-based audio is defined as the
transfer function, represented as an impulse response,
**h**(θ~i~, φ~i~), between a device under test and a loudspeaker located
at an equal distance *r* and L predefined directions, *(θ~i~, φ~i~)*,
*i*=1,\...,L*.*

#### 4.1.2.2 Test conditions

**Free-field propagation conditions**

\- The test environment shall contain a free-field volume, wherein
free-field sound propagation conditions shall be observed.

\- The free-field sound propagation conditions shall be observed down to
a frequency of 200Hz.

**Test environment noise floor**

The equivalent continuous sound level of the test environment in each
1/3^rd^ octave band, *L~eq~(f)*, shall be less than the limits of the
NR10 curve, following the noise rating determination procedures in
\[4\].

**Loudspeaker array**

A real or simulated loudspeaker array comprising L loudspeakers located
be a set of predefined directions *(θ~i~, φ~i~)*, *i*=1,\...,L, from the
geometric center of the *loudspeaker array* shall be used.

#### 4.1.2.3 Measurement

For each loudspeaker position *(θ~i~, φ~i~)*, *i*=1,\...,L , the
following procedure shall be used:

a\) An exponential sweep sine test signal is played over the
loudspeaker.

NOTE: The impact of codec on the exponential sweep sine test signal
needs to be verified before performing the measurements. An activation
signal may be needed.

b\) The impulse response **h**(θ~i~, φ~i~) at the geometric center of
the *loudspeaker array* is measured.

4.2 Objective Test Methodologies for Assessment of Immersive Audio Systems in the Receiving Direction
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Headset Binaural Diffuse-field Receive frequency response for Scene-based audio

#### 4.2.1.1 Introduction

This test is applicable to UEs rendering scene-based audio (e.g. First
and Higher Order Ambisonics) over a binaural headset.

#### 4.2.1.2 Definition

The Headset Binaural Diffuse-field Receive Frequency Response for
Scene-based Audio (for left and right ears) is defined as the transfer
function, *G~L,R~ (f)*, between:

a\) *P~L,R~(f)*, the binaurally recorded sound pressure magnitude
spectra, obtained when a diffuse field signal in the equivalent spatial
domain representation, w(t), is played on the DUT; and

b\) *P~ref\ L,R~*(f), the reference sound pressure magnitude spectra,
obtained by direct convolution of the diffuse field signal in the
equivalent spatial domain representation, w(t) with its corresponding
set of HRTFs.

#### 4.2.1.3 Test Conditions

**Test environment noise floor**

The equivalent continuous sound level of the test environment in each
1/3^rd^ octave band, *L~eq~(f)*, shall be less than the limits of the
NR10 curve, following the noise rating determination procedures in
\[4\].

The set of HRTFs used by the UE shall be documented and available to the
test lab.

#### 4.2.1.4 Measurement

**Reference sound pressure magnitude spectra**

The reference sound pressure magnitude spectra are derived offline. The
reference sound pressure magnitude spectra for the left and right ears,
*P~ref\ L,R~ (f)* is the frequency domain representation of the
convolution between the set of equivalent spatial domain signals,
**w**(t)*,* with its corresponding set head related transfer functions
***h** ~L,R~(t),* for each direction *j* in an equivalent spatial domain
of order *N~DUT\ ~*~,~ i.e.:

![](media/image17.png){width="2.4583333333333335in" height="0.53125in"}

The signals *w~j~(t)*, for 1 ≤ *j* ≤ (*N~DUT~ +1*)^2^, are uncorrelated
pink noise signals of 30s length.

**Binaurally recorded sound pressure magnitude spectra**

The binaurally recorded sound pressure magnitude spectra is obtained as
follows:

a\) The binaural headset is placed on a HATS.

b\) The DUT shall be configured such that the set of HRTFs used for
binaural rendering correspond to the HATS used for testing.

c\) The DUT volume control (if any) is adjusted for its nominal setting.

d\) The binaural time-domain signals are recorded with HATS.

e\) The binaurally recorded sound pressure magnitude spectra,
*P~L,R~(f)* is obtained by taking the Fourier transform of the
binaurally recorded time-domain signals.

**Calculation of headset binaural diffuse-field receive frequency
response for scene-based audio**

The headset binaural diffuse-field frequency response for scene-based
audio, *G(f)*, is calculated for each supported Ambisonics order
*N~DUT~* as:

![](media/image18.png){width="1.1041666666666667in"
height="0.3645833333333333in"}

### 4.2.2 Nominal System Sensitivity in Receive Direction for Channel-based audio

#### 4.2.2.1 Introduction

This test is applicable to UEs rendering channel-based audio (e.g.
7.1.4) over a binaural headset.

#### 4.2.2.2 Definition

The nominal system sensitivity in receive direction for channel-based
audio is defined as the difference between the sound pressure level (in
dBSPL(A)) produced by the DUT on HATS and the root mean square of the
digital test signal (in dBFS).

#### 4.2.2.3 Test Conditions

**Test environment noise floor**

The equivalent continuous sound level of the test environment in each
1/3^rd^ octave band, *L~eq~(f)*, shall be less than the limits of the
NR10 curve, following the noise rating determination procedures in
\[4\].

The specific HATS used for the recording shall be described in the test
report. The set of HRTFs used by the UE shall be documented and
available to the test lab.

#### 4.2.2.4 Measurement

For each audio channel supported by the DUT, a pink noise signal with
-18 dBFS RMS level is played, with the signals played only one channel
at a time.

The *LAeq* (in dBSPL(A)) is measured continuously for a period of 30 s
for each of the left and right ears.

The sensitivity G~i\ L,R~ is expressed as the difference of the recorded
sound pressure levels at the left and right ears and the root mean
square digital level of the pink noise test signal, i.e. -18 dBFS.

![](media/image19.png){width="1.0729166666666667in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"}

### 4.2.3 Motion to Sound Latency in Dynamic Binaural Rendering Systems

#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction

Motion to Sound latency is the time difference between the event of a
change in head rotation and when the immersive audio signal is finally
compensated for the head motion. The method in this specification is
intended to verify that the overall motion-to-sound latency that a user
experiences upon rotating their head is within acceptable limits.

The method allows full measurement of motion to sound, i.e. including
both the latency of the head tracking sensor as well as the audio
playback. This includes all components of a real setup and therefore
contains all possible causes of additional latency that a user may
experience.

The method also provides a latency value for the isolated audio
processing of the binaural renderer without the aforementioned external
hardware, assuming that the binaural renderer can process audio data as
an audio processing plugin that can be evaluated in isolation.

NOTE: This method requires synchronized playback of two renderer
instances and may not be suitable for the measurements of UEs where such
synchronization is not possible.

#### 4.2.3.2 Requirements

The following will be required:

Software:

\- Audio processing software to run and record output of two renderers
simultaneously

\- Head tracker software

Hardware:

\- Host machine for audio processing

\- Head tracker hardware

\- Stereo audio recording interface

\- Stereo audio playback interface

\- Mechanical setup to rotate the head tracking sensor in a precise and
reproducible way

An exemplary hardware setup can be seen below in Figure 2, the method
however can also be implemented using different systems under test and
accompanying equipment:

Figure 2: Hardware Overview (Setup in Position 1 on the left, Position 2
on the right)

The audio processing environment uses two parallel signal chains, each
containing its own instance of the same binaural renderer being tested.
The test is concerned only with yaw angles, so values of pitch and roll
should be set to zero at the beginning of the test and can be ignored
thereafter.

Figure 3: Generic Audio Processing Environment

The initial conditions are that Rendering Chain 1 (RC1) has a static yaw
head rotation angle of 0 degrees and RC2 uses the physical rotation of
the head tracker to get its yaw value. A white noise signal is virtually
placed directly in front of the listener (0 degrees azimuth, elevation),
meaning that rotation of the arm directly affects how the white noise
source is rendered.

#### 4.2.3.3 Calibration

The first step is to calibrate the final position of the rotating arm
(Position 2 / P2). The rotating arm is moved manually and requires only
a limited range of motion - from some small rotation away from the table
(Position 1 / P1), 20 to 30 degrees will be ample, through until contact
with the table (P2). The arm should be placed at P2 and set up so that
this position also corresponds to 0 degrees yaw.

#### 4.2.3.4 Evaluation Environment

An object within the evaluation environment, e.g. using Max/MSP, should
be created to set the value of yaw to exactly 0 degrees once the real
value of yaw (received from the head tracker) is \<0.2 degrees.

NOTE: This tolerance value was chosen to be as small as possible while
ensuring that it does not bounce (dependent on the accuracy of the
tracking system)

This object should be designed to latch to zero once the actual value is
under the tolerance threshold, so that any small accidental rebound of
the rotating arm does not affect the yaw angle fed to the renderer - it
artificially remains at exactly 0, which is important to ensure that
both rendering chains have exactly the same head rotation when the arm
is in its final position (P2). The output from the evaluation
environment is captured by the recording audio interface, which
therefore includes any latency introduced by playback.

#### 4.2.3.5 Data acquisition

A test run begins by starting to record on the recording audio
interface. The rotating arm is set to Position 1, then the audio
processing set running and starts feeding the input source to both
renderer instances. A microphone is positioned near the contact point at
the table. This mono room microphone will be recorded synchronously with
the output from the evaluation environment, with its purpose being to
log the point of contact of the arm with the table, which should be done
with a good amount speed and vigour so that the microphone picks up a
loud knock at the table. Shortly after this (one or two seconds for
example), with the test run now complete, playback and recording can be
stopped.

Some milliseconds after the collision, the latest yaw value detected by
the tracking system will have been passed into the evaluation
environment (t~Tracking~). With the target yaw value now reached
(latched to zero in Max), both rendering chains will have the identical
values of head rotation and therefore, after some further short delay,
the output of both renderer instances will be identical.

#### 4.2.3.6 Data Analysis

The overall motion-to-sound latency (tM2S) is taken as the time from the
moment of collision until the point at which the two output signals are
identical.

To easily visually inspect when this point occurs, one output channel of
one signal chain (e.g. RC1-left) is subtracted from the same output
channel of the complementary signal chain (RC2-left).

NOTE 1: This could be done manually in audio editor software after
processing, but this would require recording at least three channels
synchronously (one from each renderer chain, and one of the room
microphone). Instead, the subtraction of signals can be done within
Max/MSP, meaning only the output of this operation (one channel) and the
room microphone can conveniently be recorded with a stereo audio
interface. In addition to the stereo WAVE file recorded by a separate
audio application, the Max/MSP application also writes to a separate
mono WAVE file once it detects that it is in the final tolerated yaw
position (latched on). This mono WAVE contains only the subtracted
signals as described above, from which the tMspProc time can also be
measured.

Evaluation is performed offline in audio editor software. The tMspProc
time is measured from the start of the file until the point at which
consecutive zero samples begin. This value encompasses any
motion-to-sound latency caused by the tested renderer chain as well as
any other latency caused by Virtual Studio Technology (VST) plugin
framework buffering. The tMspProc time shall be measured from the audio
frame boundary at which the latched-on yaw value is activated and
applied within that audio frame.

NOTE 2: Since the yaw rotation update rate of the tracker is typically
in the range of a few milliseconds, there is a framing mismatch when
compared to the audio framing, but this mismatch will not be
incorporated in the tMspProc value but rather only in the tM2S
measurement.

An example measurement of the tMspProc is displayed in Figure 4. For
tM2S this is measured by selecting the duration between the visible
collision peak in the microphone channel and the point at which the
other channel reduces to silence. Figure 5 shows an example measurement
for the motion-to-sound latency.

Figure 4: tMspProc latency measurement

Figure 5: Motion-to-sound (tM2S) latency measurement

In Figure 5 the room recording is on the top, subtracted renderer output
is on the bottom. Marked region is the time passed since the arm hits
the table (recorded knock) and when the subtracted binaural renderer
output reaches silence.

NOTE 3: Unlike the tMspProc measurement, the tM2S measurement is taken
from signals recorded from hardware audio interfaces, hence it is not
possible to look for continuous silence since the resulting file will
always contain some noise added by the digital-to-analog and
analog-to-digital converters. For this reason, it is important to ensure
a high signal-to-noise ratio in the signal provided to audio interfaces,
to make it easier to inspect where the cancellation occurs.

######## Annex A (normative): Order dependent directions

The following tables order-dependent directions
![](media/image24.png){width="1.8166666666666667in" height="0.225in"},
where ![](media/image25.png){width="0.25in" height="0.225in"} and
![](media/image26.png){width="0.26666666666666666in" height="0.225in"}
denote the elevations and azimuths in radians, respectively.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Index ![](media/image27.png){width="5.2083333333333336e-2in" height="0.14583333333333334in"}   ![](media/image28.png){width="0.34375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image29.png){width="0.3645833333333333in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  1                                                                                              1.570796                                                                   0
  2                                                                                              -0.339837                                                                  0
  3                                                                                              -0.339837                                                                  2.094395
  4                                                                                              -0.339837                                                                  -2.0944
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Index ![](media/image27.png){width="5.2083333333333336e-2in" height="0.14583333333333334in"}   ![](media/image30.png){width="0.34375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image31.png){width="0.3645833333333333in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  1                                                                                              1.570796                                                                   0
  2                                                                                              -0.790277                                                                  0
  3                                                                                              0.363207                                                                   -1.95668
  4                                                                                              0.363207                                                                   1.956682
  5                                                                                              -0.844382                                                                  -1.95668
  6                                                                                              0.009757                                                                   -3.14159
  7                                                                                              -0.844382                                                                  1.956681
  8                                                                                              0.245128                                                                   0.687124
  9                                                                                              0.245129                                                                   -0.68712
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Index ![](media/image27.png){width="5.2083333333333336e-2in" height="0.14583333333333334in"}   ![](media/image32.png){width="0.34375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image33.png){width="0.3645833333333333in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  1                                                                                              1.570796                                                                   0
  2                                                                                              0.716698                                                                   0
  3                                                                                              -0.461173                                                                  1.119907
  4                                                                                              -1.034310                                                                  -0.25283
  5                                                                                              0.492174                                                                   1.155586
  6                                                                                              -0.165812                                                                  2.040481
  7                                                                                              -0.461172                                                                  -1.38118
  8                                                                                              -0.165813                                                                  0.270692
  9                                                                                              0.001916                                                                   -2.20417
  10                                                                                             0.653709                                                                   2.297267
  11                                                                                             0.653709                                                                   -2.80293
  12                                                                                             -0.192680                                                                  3.010956
  13                                                                                             -1.079056                                                                  2.154919
  14                                                                                             0.001915                                                                   -0.63529
  15                                                                                             0.616834                                                                   -1.41973
  16                                                                                             -0.887326                                                                  -2.46809
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Index ![](media/image27.png){width="5.2083333333333336e-2in" height="0.14583333333333334in"}   ![](media/image34.png){width="0.34375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image35.png){width="0.3645833333333333in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  1                                                                                              1.570796                                                                   0
  2                                                                                              0.747578                                                                   0
  3                                                                                              -0.168324                                                                  -2.00759
  4                                                                                              0.846499                                                                   1.927637
  5                                                                                              0.234515                                                                   -1.41208
  6                                                                                              0.699165                                                                   -2.10001
  7                                                                                              0.307091                                                                   2.512927
  8                                                                                              0.130649                                                                   1.667633
  9                                                                                              -0.677517                                                                  1.442383
  10                                                                                             0.136843                                                                   -0.60062
  11                                                                                             -1.317269                                                                  0.329968
  12                                                                                             -0.433118                                                                  -1.18621
  13                                                                                             -0.231864                                                                  2.983332
  14                                                                                             0.174242                                                                   -2.69222
  15                                                                                             -0.599985                                                                  0.507602
  16                                                                                             -0.382009                                                                  2.208977
  17                                                                                             -0.009394                                                                  0.952319
  18                                                                                             -1.013813                                                                  -1.71565
  19                                                                                             0.696199                                                                   0.934402
  20                                                                                             -0.602139                                                                  -0.38654
  21                                                                                             -1.041921                                                                  2.675958
  22                                                                                             -0.623111                                                                  -2.62842
  23                                                                                             0.054056                                                                   0.165012
  24                                                                                             0.855489                                                                   -1.02504
  25                                                                                             0.808243                                                                   -3.13121
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Index ![](media/image27.png){width="5.2083333333333336e-2in" height="0.14583333333333334in"}   ![](media/image36.png){width="0.34375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image37.png){width="0.3645833333333333in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  1                                                                                              1.570796                                                                   0
  2                                                                                              -0.454100                                                                  0
  3                                                                                              0.323739                                                                   -1.19666
  4                                                                                              -1.175381                                                                  0.184066
  5                                                                                              0.947221                                                                   0.124282
  6                                                                                              -0.193698                                                                  -2.84022
  7                                                                                              0.500281                                                                   -1.84701
  8                                                                                              -0.663529                                                                  0.698758
  9                                                                                              -0.613332                                                                  2.280239
  10                                                                                             -0.588043                                                                  -2.28482
  11                                                                                             0.946645                                                                   -2.37569
  12                                                                                             0.333311                                                                   2.883411
  13                                                                                             0.967374                                                                   -1.18504
  14                                                                                             0.436854                                                                   -2.76846
  15                                                                                             0.510141                                                                   0.763488
  16                                                                                             -0.063811                                                                  -0.46491
  17                                                                                             0.048266                                                                   -2.27504
  18                                                                                             -0.148392                                                                  1.762138
  19                                                                                             0.945735                                                                   2.804486
  20                                                                                             -0.125777                                                                  -1.69175
  21                                                                                             -0.241518                                                                  -1.0321
  22                                                                                             -0.063824                                                                  0.509415
  23                                                                                             -1.240392                                                                  -1.95737
  24                                                                                             0.542172                                                                   -0.567
  25                                                                                             0.043647                                                                   2.319619
  26                                                                                             -0.291045                                                                  2.853233
  27                                                                                             -0.841101                                                                  -3.07101
  28                                                                                             -1.213891                                                                  2.113132
  29                                                                                             -0.706626                                                                  -1.50877
  30                                                                                             -0.774625                                                                  -0.65404
  31                                                                                             -0.707445                                                                  1.464227
  32                                                                                             0.990842                                                                   1.373127
  33                                                                                             -0.122664                                                                  1.112751
  34                                                                                             0.598614                                                                   2.113949
  35                                                                                             0.306690                                                                   0.057137
  36                                                                                             0.381934                                                                   1.457925
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Index ![](media/image27.png){width="5.2083333333333336e-2in" height="0.14583333333333334in"}   ![](media/image38.png){width="0.34375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image39.png){width="0.3645833333333333in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  1                                                                                              1.570796                                                                   0
  2                                                                                              0.720144                                                                   0
  3                                                                                              -0.308365                                                                  3.024454
  4                                                                                              0.068431                                                                   2.080642
  5                                                                                              -0.495677                                                                  -2.21373
  6                                                                                              -0.018779                                                                  -2.03598
  7                                                                                              0.426043                                                                   1.678014
  8                                                                                              -0.259742                                                                  0.964363
  9                                                                                              0.179320                                                                   -3.03552
  10                                                                                             -0.249618                                                                  -2.70206
  11                                                                                             1.074183                                                                   0.581055
  12                                                                                             -0.781172                                                                  -2.80103
  13                                                                                             0.457849                                                                   0.550136
  14                                                                                             0.523951                                                                   -1.98436
  15                                                                                             -0.006246                                                                  -0.51212
  16                                                                                             -0.788507                                                                  -1.1411
  17                                                                                             0.228181                                                                   -2.48765
  18                                                                                             -0.418110                                                                  -1.62282
  19                                                                                             -0.512688                                                                  -0.57506
  20                                                                                             0.572140                                                                   2.286204
  21                                                                                             -0.867576                                                                  -0.08741
  22                                                                                             -0.624799                                                                  0.547028
  23                                                                                             -0.446687                                                                  1.878965
  24                                                                                             -0.789667                                                                  2.746717
  25                                                                                             1.047763                                                                   -0.76025
  26                                                                                             0.247192                                                                   -1.01978
  27                                                                                             0.720143                                                                   1.162107
  28                                                                                             -0.081819                                                                  1.507148
  29                                                                                             0.226040                                                                   1.062706
  30                                                                                             0.709088                                                                   -2.68135
  31                                                                                             -0.249096                                                                  -1.08377
  32                                                                                             0.573959                                                                   2.91352
  33                                                                                             1.069121                                                                   2.939099
  34                                                                                             0.135381                                                                   -1.53966
  35                                                                                             -0.057504                                                                  0.473238
  36                                                                                             -0.975369                                                                  -1.95522
  37                                                                                             -0.666036                                                                  1.294994
  38                                                                                             -1.146922                                                                  0.887936
  39                                                                                             -0.357070                                                                  2.427548
  40                                                                                             0.200642                                                                   -0.01608
  41                                                                                             -0.965084                                                                  1.97199
  42                                                                                             0.681666                                                                   -1.35341
  43                                                                                             0.112434                                                                   2.651183
  44                                                                                             0.528475                                                                   -0.57647
  45                                                                                             1.003627                                                                   1.857517
  46                                                                                             -1.275974                                                                  -0.77916
  47                                                                                             1.051102                                                                   -2.01121
  48                                                                                             -1.315079                                                                  3.087768
  49                                                                                             -0.326694                                                                  -0.00446
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

######## Annex B (normative): Directions in Gaussian spherical grid

B.1 Definition
==============

A Gaussian grid of order N consists of 2(N+1)^2^ points associated to
directions ![](media/image40.png){width="1.125in" height="0.225in"},
![](media/image41.png){width="0.5916666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} and
![](media/image42.png){width="1.0333333333333334in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, where
![](media/image43.png){width="0.25in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
and ![](media/image26.png){width="0.26666666666666666in"
height="0.225in"} denote the elevation and azimuth, respectively. These
directions are defined as follows \[7\]: The elevations
![](media/image43.png){width="0.25in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
are computed as the zeros of the (N+1)-th degree Legendre polynomial\
![](media/image44.png){width="1.25in" height="0.20833333333333334in"},
while the azimuths are given by
![](media/image45.png){width="0.7833333333333333in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"} (in radians) or j.180/(*N*+1) (in
degrees), ![](media/image42.png){width="1.0333333333333334in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}.

Directions in test setup shall comply with the theoretical values
![](media/image46.png){width="0.25833333333333336in" height="0.225in"}
with an accuracy of +/-0.5 degree for all azimuths and +/-0.5 degree for
elevations in the range \[-80,+80\] degrees. For elevation \>80 degrees
and \<-80 degrees, the accuracy shall be respectively +4/-0.5 degrees
and +0.5/-4 degrees.

B.2 Example loudspeaker array
=============================

An example implementation with an ambisonic order N = 29 is described
below:

\- A turn table with constant step size of 6 degrees and starting at 0
degree (to obtain 60 positions in azimuth).

\- Two fixed semi-arcs of radius 2.5 meters separated in azimuth by 90
degrees with 15 loudspeakers on each semi-arc; the elevations of
loudspeakers are given (in degrees) by -85, -80, -74, -68, -62, -56,
-50, -44, -38, -32, -27, -21, -15, -9, -3, 3, 9, 15, 21, 27, 32, 38, 44,
50, 56, 62, 68, 74, 80, 85, where succesive values are alternatively
allocated to each semi-arc.

NOTE: In practice, the elevation of -85 degrees may be replaced by a
nearby value (e.g. -82 degrees) to leave room for the mounting structure
at the bottom of the loudspeaker array.

######## Annex C (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                               
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                  **New version**
  2018-09              SA-81         SP-180644                                Presented to TSG SA\#81 for approval                                 1.0.0
  2018-09              SA-81                                                  Approved at TSG SA\#81                                               15.0.0
  2018-12              SA-82         SP-180969   0001     2                   Corrections to test method with loudspeaker array and turn table     15.1.0
  2020-03              SA-87-e       SP-200105   002      1         F         Correction of sensitivity calculation for immersive audio playback   15.2.0
  2020-07              \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                       **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
