![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.086111111111111in"
height="1.136111111111111in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#normative-references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#symbols)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#outline-description)

[6](#parametric-stereo-encoder)

[6](#system-overview)

[7](#analysis-filterbank)

[7](#qmf-analysis-filterbank)

[7](#low-frequency-filtering)

[9](#configurations)

[9](#stereo-parameter-extraction)

[9](#parameter-estimation)

[11](#quantization-of-iid-and-icc-parameters)

[11](#writing-to-bitstream)

[13](#downmixing-to-mono)

[13](#synthesis-filterbank)

[16](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 Normative
references 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Symbols 3.3 Abbreviations 4 Outline description 5 Parametric stereo
encoder 5.1 System overview 5.2 Analysis filterbank 5.2.1 QMF analysis
filterbank 5.2.2 Low frequency filtering 5.3 Configurations 5.4 Stereo
parameter extraction 5.4.1 Parameter estimation 5.4.2 Quantization of
IID and ICC parameters 5.5 Writing to bitstream 5.6 Downmixing to mono
5.7 Synthesis filterbank Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

The present document describes the detailed mapping of the general audio
service employing the aacPlus general audio codec within the 3GPP
system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

1 Scope
=======

This Telecommunication Standard (TS) describes the Parametric Stereo
encoder part of the Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec \[4\].

2 Normative references
======================

This TS incorporates by dated and undated reference, provisions from
other publications. These normative references are cited in the
appropriate places in the text and the publications are listed
hereafter. For dated references, subsequent amendments to or revisions
of any of these publications apply to this TS only when incorporated in
it by amendment or revision. For undated references, the latest edition
of the publication referred to applies.

\[1\] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001/AMD1:2003: \"Bandwidth Extension\".

\[2\] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001/Amd.1:2003/DCOR1.

\[3\] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001/ Amd.2:2004: \"Parametric Coding for High
Quality Audio\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 26.401: \"Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; General
Description:.

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of this TS, the following definitions apply:

**hybrid QMF: a QMF filterbank combined with additional filters to
achieve higher frequency resolution for the lower QMF bands**

**stereo band: a group of consecutive hybrid QMF subbands used for
coding one stereo parameter**

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of this TS, the following symbols apply:

![](media/image3.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.25in"} Subsample in
hybrid QMF matrix: left channel, band *k*, subsample n.

![](media/image4.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.25in"} Subsample in
hybrid QMF matrix: right channel, band *k*, subsample n.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of this TS, the following abbreviations apply.

SBR Spectral Band Replication

AAC Advanced Audio Coding

aacPlus Combination of MPEG-4 AAC and MPEG-4 Bandwidth extension (SBR)

Enhanced aacPlus Combination of MPEG-4 AAC, MPEG-4 Bandwidth extension
(SBR) and MPEG-4 Parametric Stereo

QMF Quadrature Mirror Filter

MPEG Moving Picture Expert Group

IID Inter Intensity Difference, (stereo parameter)

ICC Inter Channel Coherence, (stereo parameter)

4 Outline description
=====================

This TS is structured as follows:

Section 5.2 describes the hybrid QMF filterbank and its integration in
the Parametric Stereo system.

Section 5.3 describes the hybrid QMF filterbank and its integration in
the Parametric Stereo system.

Section 5.4 describes the parameter estimation algorithms and
quantization.

Section 5.5 describes how to convey the estimated parameters in the
bitstream.

Section 5.6 and section 5.7 describes preparation of the signal that
should feed the aacPlus mono encoder after the Parametric Stereo
encoding.

5 Parametric stereo encoder
===========================

5.1 System overview
-------------------

![](media/image5.wmf){width="6.84375in" height="3.09375in"}

Figure 1: Encoder overview

The interface between the parametric stereo encoder tool and the aacPlus
encoder is depicted in Figure 1. In the figure L and R denotes the left
and right channel respectively, while M denotes the down-mixed mono
signal which the aacPlus encoder operates on.

The parametric stereo coding tool is able to capture the stereo image
into a limited number of parameters, requiring only a small overhead of
a few kbit/s. Together with a controlled monaural downmix of the stereo
input signal, the parametric stereo coding tool is able to regenerate
the stereo signal at the decoder side.

The encoder operates as a non-modifying analyzer prior to the aacPlus
encoder, though it shares the same QMF analysis filterbank. The decoder
operates as a post process to aacPlus using the Parametric Stereo data
conveyed by the bitstream to synthesize the stereo properties of the
output signal. Part from the parametric stereo tool, the aacPlus runs in
mono mode not affected by Parametric Stereo.

The bitstream syntax and decoder description of the parametric stereo
tool in combination with aacPlus is defined in \[3\]. This system
includes only the baseline level defined in that standard.

5.2 Analysis filterbank
-----------------------

### 5.2.1 QMF analysis filterbank

This filterbank is identical to the 64 complex QMF analysis filterbank
as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-3/AMD1:2003, sub clause 4.B.18.2 \[1\],
\[2\]. However, in the equation for matrix **M**(k,n) and in Figure
4.B.20, the term \"(2\*n+1)\" has to be substituted by \"(2\*n-1)\". The
input to the filterbank are blocks of 64 samples of the monaural
synthesized signal M. For each block the filterbank outputs one slot of
64 QMF samples.

### 5.2.2 Low frequency filtering

The lower QMF subbands are further split in order to obtain a higher
frequency resolution enabling a proper stereo analysis and synthesis for
the lower frequencies. To achieve those, in total 77 frequency bands, a
hybrid filterbank configurations have been defined. The filter used for
this sub subband filtering,
![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"} is defined according to:

![](media/image7.wmf){width="2.4027777777777777in"
height="0.4722222222222222in"}

where represents the prototype filters in QMF subband p. represents the
number of sub-subbands in QMF subband p, q the sub-subband index in QMF
channel p and n the time index. The prototype filters are all of length
13 and have a delay of 6 QMF samples. The prototype filters are listed
in Table 1.

Table 1: Prototype filter coefficients for the filters that split the
lower QMF subbands

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  ![](media/image10.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.1388888888888889in"}   ![](media/image11.wmf){width="0.8888888888888888in" height="0.25in"}   ![](media/image12.wmf){width="1.0138888888888888in" height="0.25in"}
  0                                                                       0.00746082949812                                                       -0.00305151927305
  1                                                                       0.02270420949825                                                       -0.00794862316203
  2                                                                       0.04546865930473                                                       0
  3                                                                       0.07266113929591                                                       0.04318924038756
  4                                                                       0.09885108575264                                                       0.12542448210445
  5                                                                       0.11793710567217                                                       0.21227807049160
  6                                                                       0.125                                                                  0.25000000000000
  7                                                                       0.11793710567217                                                       0.21227807049160
  8                                                                       0.09885108575264                                                       0.12542448210445
  9                                                                       0.07266113929591                                                       0.04318924038756
  10                                                                      0.04546865930473                                                       0
  11                                                                      0.02270420949825                                                       -0.00794862316203
  12                                                                      0.00746082949812                                                       -0.00305151927305
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Figure 2 and Figure 3 illustrate the hybrid analysis and synthesis
filterbank for the 77 frequency bands configuration.

![](media/image13.wmf){width="5.740972222222222in"
height="5.1618055555555555in"}

Figure 2: Hybrid QMF analysis filterbank providing 77 output bands. The
three lower subbands of the 64 QMF (see dashed box) are further split to
provide for increased resolution for the lower frequencies

![](media/image14.wmf){width="4.1305555555555555in"
height="3.6881944444444446in"}

Figure 3: Hybrid QMF synthesis filterbank using 77 input bands. The
coefficients offering higher resolution for the lower QMF subbands are
simply added prior to the synthesis with the 64 subbands QMF (see dashed
box)

In order to time align all the samples originating from the hybrid
filterbank, the remaining QMF subbands that have not been filtered are
delay compensated. This delay amounts to 6 QMF subband samples. This
means ![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.7638888888888888in"
height="0.25in"} for k=3\...63. In order to compensate for the overall
delay of the hybrid analysis filterbank, the first 10 sets (6 from delay
and 4 from QMF filter) of hybrid subbands are flushed and therefore not
taken into account for processing.

The resultant of this operation is a slot of hybrid subband samples
consisting of a LF (low frequency) sub QMF subband portion and HF (high
frequency) QMF subband portion.

5.3 Configurations
------------------

The parametric stereo encoder uses two different configurations
depending on desired frequency resolution. The configuration parameter,
*num\_stereo\_bands* determines what frequency resolution should be used
for the stereo parameters. For all bitrates below 21000 bit/s,
*num\_stereo\_bands* is set to 10 otherwise *num\_stereo\_bands* is set
to 20.

5.4 Stereo parameter extraction
-------------------------------

### 5.4.1 Parameter estimation

In order to estimate the stereo parameters the signals M, L and R are
analyzed using the hybrid filterbank as in Figure 2 for providing the 77
frequency bands addressed by the index,
![](media/image16.wmf){width="0.6527777777777778in"
height="0.18055555555555555in"}. This results in the (sub-)subband
domain signals, ![](media/image17.wmf){width="0.5138888888888888in"
height="0.25in"}, ![](media/image18.wmf){width="0.44375in"
height="0.25in"} and ![](media/image19.wmf){width="0.4722222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}.

To estimate the parameters for the current frame the following is
calculated:

![](media/image20.wmf){width="2.2083333333333335in"
height="0.5138888888888888in"}

![](media/image21.wmf){width="2.25in" height="0.5138888888888888in"}

![](media/image22.wmf){width="3.19375in" height="0.4722222222222222in"}

where ![](media/image23.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.25in"},
![](media/image24.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.25in"} and
![](media/image25.wmf){width="0.4027777777777778in" height="0.25in"} are
the left channel excitation, the right channel excitation and the
non-normalized cross-channel excitation between left and right channel
for stereo bin ![](media/image26.wmf){width="0.125in"
height="0.18055555555555555in"} respectively, L the segment length,
![](media/image27.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} a
very small value preventing division by zero
(![](media/image28.wmf){width="0.5555555555555556in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}). The summation over
![](media/image29.wmf){width="0.1388888888888889in"
height="0.18055555555555555in"} is shown in Table 2 for 20 bands case.
For the 10 bands case additional formulas below are used.

Table 2: Summation range in 71 sub subbands in case of 20 bands

  ------------------- --------------------- -------------
  Parameter index b   Sub subband index k   QMF channel
  0                   0                     0
  1                   1                     0
  2                   2                     0
  3                   3                     0
  4                   10                    1
  5                   11                    1
  6                   12                    2
  7                   13                    2
  8                   16                    3
  9                   17                    4
  10                  18                    5
  11                  19                    6
  12                  20                    7
  13                  21                    8
  14                  22-23                 9-10
  15                  24-26                 11-13
  16                  27-30                 14-17
  17                  31-35                 18-22
  18                  36-47                 23-34
  19                  48-76                 35-63
  ------------------- --------------------- -------------

For the 10 band case, summation will be use the same table as the 20
band case but with the additional summation:

![](media/image30.wmf){width="1.7777777777777777in"
height="0.4305555555555556in"}

![](media/image31.wmf){width="1.8055555555555556in"
height="0.4305555555555556in"}

![](media/image32.wmf){width="1.875in" height="0.4305555555555556in"}

Where ![](media/image33.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.2361111111111111in"} and
![](media/image34.wmf){width="0.2638888888888889in"
height="0.2361111111111111in"} and
![](media/image35.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.2361111111111111in"} should replace
![](media/image36.wmf){width="0.1388888888888889in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"} and
![](media/image37.wmf){width="0.1527777777777778in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"} and
![](media/image38.wmf){width="0.18055555555555555in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"} in the following formulas for the 10 band
case.

The IID, denoted as iid(b) and the ICC, denoted as icc(b), for each
stereo band ![](media/image26.wmf){width="0.125in"
height="0.18055555555555555in"} are calculated as:

![](media/image39.wmf){width="1.5555555555555556in"
height="0.5138888888888888in"}

### 5.4.2 Quantization of IID and ICC parameters

The obtained values for IID and ICC are quantized to the nearest lower
value given in Table 3 and Table 4, respectively, then coded into
Huffman words according to Huffman tables found in \[4\] section 8.B.1
Huffman tables ps\_data.

Table 3: Quantization grid for iid

  ------------ ------- ----- ----- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---
  Index        -7      -6    -5    -4     -3     -2   -1     0
  IID \[dB\]   -21.5   -16   -12   -8.5   -5.5   -3   -1     0
  Index        1       2     3     4      5      6    7      
  IID \[dB\]   1       3     5.5   8.5    12     16   21.5   
  ------------ ------- ----- ----- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---

Table 1: Quantization grid for icc

  ------- --- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------- ----------
  index   0   1          2          3          4          5          6           7
  Icc     0   0.088900   0.229800   0.364250   0.504500   0.635100   0.799600f   0.945650
  ------- --- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------- ----------

5.5 Writing to bitstream
------------------------

The parametric stereo bitstream should be placed in the SBR extension
field according to syntax in Table 5. The EXTENSION\_ID\_PS should be
used as extension identifier. Note that due to SBR extension is design,
the total size, in bytes, of the ps\_data element has to be added to the
SBR extension element before writing the actual ps\_data.

Table 5: Syntax of sbr\_extension()

  ----------------------------------------------------- ----------------- -----------
  Syntax                                                No. of bits       Mnemonic
  sbr\_extension(bs\_extension\_id, num\_bits\_left)                      
  {                                                                       
  switch (bs\_extension\_id) {                                            
  case EXTENSION\_ID\_PS:                                                 
  num\_bits\_left -= ps\_data();                                          Note 1
  break;                                                                  
  default:                                                                
  **bs\_fill\_bits**;                                   num\_bits\_left   **bslbf**
  num\_bits\_left = 0;                                                    
  break;                                                                  
  }                                                                       
  }                                                                       
  Note 1: ps\_data() returns the number of bits read.                     
  ----------------------------------------------------- ----------------- -----------

Table 6: Values of the bs\_extension\_id field

  ------------------- ------------------ --------------------------
  Symbol              Value              Purpose
  EXTENSION\_ID\_PS   2                  Parametric Stereo Coding
                      all other values   reserved
  ------------------- ------------------ --------------------------

The syntax of the ps\_data is defined in \[4\] Table 8.1. The bitstream
elements in ps\_data should be assigned values according to the
following list.

**enable\_ps\_header** -- Is set to 1 for all frames containing an SBR
header. Is set to 0 for all other cases.

**enable\_iid** -- Is set to 0 if all values in the iid vector after
quantization are zero. Is set to 1 for all other cases.

**enable\_icc** -- Is set to 0 if all values in the icc vector after
quantization are zero. Is set to 1 for all other cases.

**iid\_mode** -- Is set to 0 if 10 stereo bands resolution is chosen. Is
set to 1 for all other cases.

**icc\_mode** -- Is set to 0 if 10 stereo bands resolution is chosen. Is
set to 1 for all other cases.

**enable\_ext** -- Is set to 0.

**frame\_class** -- Is set to 0.

**num\_env\_idx** -- Is set to 0 if all values in the iid and icc
vectors after quantization are unchanged since previous frame. Is set to
1 for all other cases.

**iid\_dt** -- Is set to 1 if differential coding of iid parameters over
time gives a lower total Huffman code length than differential coding of
iid parameters with respect to the previous parameter position. Is set
to 0 for all other cases.

**icc\_dt** -- Is set to 1 if differential coding of icc parameters over
time gives a lower total Huffman code length than differential coding of
iid parameters with respect to the previous parameter position. Is set
to 0 for all other cases.

**iid\_par\_dt\[n\]** -- In case of differential coding of IID
parameters over time (iid\_dt==1), iid\_par\_dt\[n\] describes the IID
difference with respect to the previous parameter position. If no
previous parameter position is available, iid\_par\_dt\[n\] represents
the IID difference with respect to the decoded value 0 (i.e. index=0).

**iid\_par\_df\[n\]** -- In case of differential coding of IID
parameters over frequency (iid\_dt==0), iid\_par\_df\[n\] describes the
Huffman encoded IID difference with respect to the parameter (n-1).

**iid\_par\_df\[0\]** -- represents the IID difference with respect to
the decoded value 0 (i.e. index=0).

**icc\_par\_dt\[n\]** -- In case of differential coding of ICC
parameters over time (icc\_dt==1), icc\_par\_dt\[n\] describes the
difference with respect to the previous parameter position. If no
previous parameter position is available, icc\_par\_dt\[n\] represents
the ICC difference with respect to the decoded value 1 (i.e. index=0).

**icc\_par\_df\[n\]** -- In case of differential coding of ICC
parameters over frequency (icc\_dt==0), icc\_par\_df\[n\] describes the
ICC difference with respect to the parameter (n-1). icc\_par\_df\[0\]
represents the ICC difference with respect to the decoded value 1 (i.e.
index=0).

5.6 Downmixing to mono
----------------------

A monaural signal is needed for encoding of the HE AAC mono core. A
simple stereo-to-mono downmixing scheme is performed after extraction of
the stereo parameters. It combines equal parts of left and right channel
and scales the resulting mono signal in order to preserve most of the
original total power. The process is defined according to:

![](media/image41.wmf){width="2.1527777777777777in"
height="0.4305555555555556in"}

where the stereo scale factor,
![](media/image42.wmf){width="0.1388888888888889in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is defined by:

![](media/image43.wmf){width="2.638888888888889in"
height="0.6666666666666666in"}

![](media/image44.wmf){width="1.8333333333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}

5.7 Synthesis filterbank
------------------------

The stereo to mono down-mixed hybrid subband signal
![](media/image45.wmf){width="0.5138888888888888in" height="0.25in"} is
fed into the hybrid synthesis filterbank, that is implemented as an
adder of sub QMF samples. This is illustrated in Figure 3.

The synthesis filtering and implicit down-sampling of the 64 subband
signals is achieved using a 32-channel QMF bank. The output from the
filterbank is real-valued time domain samples. The process is given by
the flowchart in Figure 4. The synthesis filtering comprises the
following steps, where an array **v** consisting of 640 samples is
assumed:

\- Shift the samples in the array **v** by 64 positions. The oldest 64
samples are discarded.

\- The array of 32 complex-valued subband samples **Z** is separated
into the real and imaginary components as **Z** = **R** + i **I**. The
components are scaled and DCT and DST type IV transformed as

![](media/image46.wmf){width="3.3333333333333335in"
height="0.8888888888888888in"}

\- The arrays **r** and **i** are combined and stored in the positions 0
to 63 in array **v** as

![](media/image47.wmf){width="2.1805555555555554in"
height="0.4722222222222222in"}

\- Extract samples from **v** according to the flowchart in Figure 4 to
create the 320-element array **g**.

\- Multiply the samples of array **g** by every other coefficient of
window **w**. The window coefficients of **c** can be found in Figure 4,
and are the same as for the analysis filterbank.

\- Calculate 32 new output samples by summation of samples from array
**w** according to the last step in the flowchart of Figure 4

Every SBR frame produces an output of
![](media/image48.wmf){width="1.6111111111111112in"
height="0.18055555555555555in"} time domain samples. In the flowchart of
Figure 4 **X**\[k\]\[l\] corresponds to subband sample l in the QMF
subband k, and every new loop produces 32 time domain samples as output.

![](media/image49.wmf){width="4.5993055555555555in"
height="9.151388888888889in"}

Figure 4: Flowchart of encoder synthesis QMF bank

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- -------------- -------------- -------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                               
  **Date**             **TSG SA\#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                              **Old**   **New**
  2004-09              25             SP-040637                         Approved at SA\#25                                                               2.0.0     6.0.0
  2005-03              27             SP-050095      001      1         Correction to written specification: wrong formula on ICC parameter extraction   6.0.0     6.1.0
  2007-06              36                                               Version for Release 7                                                            6.1.0     7.0.0
  2008-12              42                                               Version for Release 8                                                            7.0.0     8.0.0
  2009-12              46                                               Version for Release 9                                                            8.0.0     9.0.0
  2011-03              51                                               Version for Release 10                                                           9.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              57                                               Version for Release 11                                                           10.0.0    11.0.0
  2014-09              65                                               Version for Release 12                                                           11.0.0    12.0.0
  2015-12              70                                               Version for Release 13                                                           12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- -------------- -------------- -------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  2017-03              75                                                    Version for Release 14           14.0.0
  2018-06              80                                                    Version for Release 15           15.0.0
  2020-07              \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
