![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.086111111111111in"
height="1.136111111111111in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#normative-references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#general)

[6](#decoder-conformance-testing)

[6](#aac-lc-sbr-and-parametric-stereo-conformance-testing)

[6](#void)

[6](#encoder-conformance)

[6](#floating-point-encoder)

[7](#fixed-point-encoder)

[7](#bit-exact-behaviour)

[7](#objective-criteria)

[7](#aac-encoder-conformance)

[8](#sbr-encoder-conformance)

[9](#ps-encoder-conformance)

[9](#subjective-criteria)

[10](#annex-a-void)

[11](#annex-b-normative-test-vectors-for-fixed-point-encoder-conformance)

[12](#annex-c-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 Normative
references 3 Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Abbreviations 4 General 5 Decoder conformance testing 5.1 AAC-LC, SBR
and Parametric Stereo conformance testing 5.2 void 6 Encoder conformance
6.1 Floating point encoder 6.2 Fixed point encoder 6.2.1 Bit-exact
Behaviour 6.2.2 Objective criteria 6.2.2.1 AAC encoder conformance
6.2.2.2 SBR encoder conformance 6.2.2.3 PS encoder conformance 6.2.3
Subjective criteria Annex A: Void Annex B (normative): Test vectors for
fixed-point encoder conformance Annex C (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the digital test sequences and
conformance criteria for the Enhanced aacPlus audio codec.

2 Normative references
======================

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 26.401: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; General description\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 26.403: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Encoder specification; Advanced
Audio Coding (AAC) part\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 26.404: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Encoder specification; Spectral
Band Replication (SBR) part\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 26.405: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Encoder specification; Parametric
stereo part\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 26.410: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Floating-point ANSI-C code\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 26.411: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Fixed-point ANSI-C code\".

\[7\] ISO/IEC 14496-4:2004: \"Information technology - Coding of
audio-visual objects -\
Part 4: Conformance testing\".

\[8\] ISO/IEC 14496-4:2004/Amd.8:2005: \"Information technology - Coding
of audio-visual objects - Part 4: Conformance testing -- Amendment 8:
High Efficiency Advanced Audio Coding, audio BIFS, and structured audio
conformance\".

\[9\] ITU-R Recommendation BS.1387-1: \"Method for objective
measurements of PErceived Audio Quality (PEAQ)\".

\[10\] ISO/IEC 14496-4:2004/Amd.11:2006 \"Information technology -
Coding of audio-visual objects - Part 4: Conformance testing - Amendment
11: Parametric Stereo conformance\".

\[11\] ISO/IEC 14496-4:2004/Amd.11:2006/Cor.2:2007 \"Information
technology - Coding of audio-visual objects - Part 4: Conformance
testing - Amendment 11: Parametric Stereo conformance Technical
Corrigendum 2\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 26.401 \[1\], 3GPP TS 26.403 \[2\], 3GPP TS 26.404
\[3\], 3GPP TS 26.405 \[4\], 3GPP TS 26.410 \[5\]and 3GPP TS 26.411
\[6\] apply.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

AAC-LC Advanced Audio Coding-Low Complexity audio object type

ODG Objective Difference Grade

PEAQ Perceptual Evaluation of Audio Quality

SBR Spectral Band Replication

4 General
=========

Conformance testing is an important tool to verify that implementations
of Enhanced aacPlus match the relevant specifications. It is also
helpful in verifying the proper use of the source code provided in 3GPP
TS 26.410 \[5\] and 3GPP TS 26.411 \[6\]. Conformance testing focuses on
the core algorithm, therefore no criteria are defined for error
concealment, downsampling and file I/O.

Clause 5 describes the proposed method of conformance testing for the
decoder. Clause 6 discusses encoder conformance.

5 Decoder conformance testing
=============================

Decoder conformance for both fixed-point and floating-point
implementations shall be tested in accordance with clause 5.1.
Conformance shall be verified by either bit-exact behaviour to the
reference output or by meeting the objective criteria defined below.
Bit-exact behaviour should be preferred for fixed-point implementations
where it can be achieved without undue penalty on computational
complexity.

5.1 AAC-LC, SBR and Parametric Stereo conformance testing
---------------------------------------------------------

Conformance testing for AAC-LC, SBR and Parametric Stereo shall be
performed according to the relevant clauses in\
ISO/IEC 14496-4 \[7\], \[8\], \[10\], \[11\]. 3GPP conformance shall not
be claimed for implementations achieving an accuracy level of K\<15 for
the \"RMS/LSB Measurement\" test carried out for AAC-LC.

5.2 void
--------

6 Encoder conformance
=====================

6.1 Floating point encoder
--------------------------

No specific routines for floating-point encoder conformance testing are
defined. It is recommended to use the\
floating-point code from 3GPP TS 26.410 \[5\]. In addition, it is
recommended to verify that the implementation meets the criteria defined
in clause 6.2 (Fixed-point encoder). If the floating-point code is used
for an implementation in mobile equipment, the criteria defined in 6.2
shall be met.

6.2 Fixed point encoder
-----------------------

Conformance of fixed-point encoder implementations for use in mobile
equipment shall be verified by bit-exact behaviour to the fixed-point
reference code \[6\] as defined in 6.2.1, or by meeting the objective
criteria as defined in 6.2.2, or by performing subjective tests as
described in 6.2.3. Fixed-point encoder implementations which are not
used in mobile equipment, should meet the conformance criteria defined
in this clause.

Bit-exact behaviour should be preferred for fixed-point implementations
where it can be achieved without undue penalty on computational
complexity.

If an implementer chooses to implement only a mono-encoder
functionality, then conformance of only this functionality shall be
tested. This shall apply irrespective of the conformance testing method
chosen.

### 6.2.1 Bit-exact Behaviour

If the bit-exact conformance method is chosen, the conformance of a
fixed-point encoder implementation under test shall be verified by
checking the bit-exactness of the raw payload of the encoded output as
produced by the fixed-point reference encoder code \[6\] for all 23 test
vectors as given in Annex B.

### 6.2.2 Objective criteria

If the objective criteria conformance method is chosen, the conformance
of a fixed-point encoder implementation under test shall be verified by
checking objective conformance criteria for each of the three tools of
the Enhanced aacPlus encoder: AAC, SBR and PS. The tests shall be
conducted with the test vectors as given in Annex B. The configurations
under test shall be 16 kbit/s mono, 32 kbit/s parametric stereo and 48
kbit/s stereo. All tests shall use the fixed-point encoder as reference.

For the purpose of fixed-point encoder conformance testing a tool has
been developed which can be used to extract the various parts of an
Enhanced aacPlus bitstream such that conformance of each of those parts
can be tested independently. The source code for this tool can be found
in an electronic attachment (fixp\_enc\_test\_tool.zip) to this
document. For a description on how to invoke the various conformance
tests, please refer to the \"readme.txt\" file that is part of the
attached package. This tool is henceforth referenced as \"fixed-point
encoder test tool\".

#### 6.2.2.1 AAC encoder conformance

Conformance testing of the AAC encoder tool shall be conducted using an
implementation of ITU-R BS.1387 (PEAQ) \[9\]. The test consists of a
statistical analysis comparison of the reference encoder performance
with the performance of the encoder under test. The following
pseudo-code and the succeeding description outlines how the performance
shall be assessed.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  cfg = 0;

  foreach (bitrate, channels, aacbandwidth) {

  tv = 0;

  foreach (item) {

  bandlimit (item, item\_bandlimited, aacbandwidth);

  encoder\_reference (item, reference\_bitstream, bitrate, channels);

  encoder\_test (item, test\_bitstream, bitrate, channels);

  decoder\_bandlimiting (reference\_bitstream, reference\_waveform);

  decoder\_bandlimiting (test\_bitstream, test\_waveform);

  odg\_ difference \[cfg\]\[tv\] = PEAQ\_advanced (item\_bandlimited, reference\_waveform) -\
  PEAQ\_advanced (item\_bandlimited, test\_waveform);

  tv++;

  }

  cfg++;

  }
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

where:

\- bandlimit (in, out, bw) is a function that limits the bandwidth of
the waveform \'in\' to \'bw\' and stores the result in the waveform
\'out\'

\- encoder\_reference (in, out, br, ch) is a function that calls the
reference encoder such that the waveform \'in\' is encoded to the
bitstream \'out\' at the bitrate \'br\' and using channelmode \'ch\'

\- encoder\_test (in, out, br, ch) is a function that calls the encoder
under test such that the waveform \'in\' is encoded to the bitstream
\'out\' at the bitrate \'br\' and using channelmode \'ch\'

\- decoder\_bandlimiting (in, out) is a function that calls the
fixed-point encoder test tool such that it decodes the AAC part of the
bitstream \'in\' to the waveform \'out\', while limiting the bandwidth
to the AAC part and performing QMF-domain upsampling

\- PEAQ\_advanced (ref, deg) is a function that compares the reference
waveform \'ref\' with the degraded waveform \'deg\' returning the ODG
resulting from that comparison

The mean of the resulting vector odg\_difference\[cfg\] shall not
indicate an average performance of the encoder under test that is worse
by more than 0.2. Moreover the worstcase difference shall not exceed
0.5. These criteria shall be fulfilled for all configurations.

#### 6.2.2.2 SBR encoder conformance

Conformance for the SBR part of the encoder shall be measured for the
various elements of the SBR bitstream independently. To eliminate the
influence of potentially differing delays between the encoder under test
and the reference encoder, the input waveforms shall be zero-padded at
the beginning such that both encoders produce equivalent framing.

The fixed-point encoder test tool shall be used to first extract the
various SBR parameters that are embedded in the SBR bitstream under test
and subsequently compare them to the output of the reference encoder.

The following is an overview of how parameter extraction and parameter
comparison work for the various modules. For further details, please
consult the attached source code of the fixed-point encoder test tool:

\- The envelope energies signaled by the encoder under test are combined
to the equivalent envelope energies for one envelope. This is done after
dequantization and M/S -\> L/R unmapping. The comparison however takes
place in the log-domain. For higher energies only low deviations are
allowed, while lower energies are permitted to deviate more: Differences
of up to 3dB are allowed for all energies, differences of up to 6dB are
allowed for energies up to 42 dB below a full scale sine, differences of
up to 9 dB are allowed for energies up to 60 dB below a full scale sine.

\- The test of the transient detector is performed by comparing the
bitstream element sbr\_grid() from both encoders. The RMS of the
difference between the transient position vector of the encoder under
test and the reference encoder shall not be greater than 0.2.

\- The test of the missing harmonics detector is carried out by
comparing the bitstream elements sbr\_sinusoidal\_coding() from both
encoders. The vector that is constructed by subtracting the missing
harmonics vectors from both bitstreams and concatenating the result over
all frames shall not have an RMS greater than 0.2.

\- The test of the whitening level detector is performed by comparing
the bitstream element sbr\_invf() from both encoders. The vector that is
constructed by subtracting the whitening level vectors of the encoder
under test and the reference encoder shall not have an RMS greater than
0.2.

\- The test for the noise floor estimator module is identical to the
test for the envelope energy conformance test, except that the actual
noise floor energies are compared instead of the envelope energies. The
maximum permissible noise floor energy difference for a given deviation
between reference encoder and encoder under test are as follows:
Differences of up to 6 dB are allowed for all energies, differences of
up to 9 dB are allowed for energies up to 42 dB below a full scale sine,
differences of up to 12 dB are allowed for energies up to 60 dB below a
full scale sine.

#### 6.2.2.3 PS encoder conformance

All comparisons shall be limited to frames and bands in the bitstream
that contain an energy greater than -87 dB below a full-scale sine.
Prior to the actual conformance test, the stereo parameters from both
encoders are mapped to the highest available stereo frequency
resolution.

\- the signal that is constructed from the differences between all IID
values signaled by the encoder under test and the reference encoder
shall have a maximum absolute difference of 2 and the RMS must not
exceed 0.25

\- the signal that is constructed from the differences between all ICC
values signaled by the encoder under test and the reference encoder
shall have a maximum absolute difference of 2 and the RMS must not
exceed 0.25

### 6.2.3 Subjective criteria

Subjective tests shall cover the encoder configurations tested during
the characterization phase. The requirement for passing the subjective
tests is that the encoder under test does not perform worse in a
statistically significant sense in any test case when compared to the
fixed-point reference encoder.

######### Annex A: Void

Table 1: Void

######## Annex B (normative): Test vectors for fixed-point encoder conformance

Table 2: Testvectors specifically relevant for the objective testing of
the AAC tool

  ---- ------------------------------
  \#   Test vector file name
  1    ct\_castagnettes.wav
  2    ct\_glockenspiel.wav
  3    ct\_test\_1\_48.wav
  4    ct\_test\_2\_48.wav
  5    ct\_test\_3\_48.wav
  6    cymbal.wav
  7    gong.wav
  8    guitar\_1.wav
  9    guitar\_2.wav
  10   guitar\_cymbals.wav
  11   handcuff.wav
  12   hihat.wav
  13   laugh.wav
  14   shaker.wav
  15   speech\_female.wav
  16   speech\_male\_german.wav
  17   speech\_male\_portuguese.wav
  18   triangle.wav
  19   wooden\_toys\_1.wav
  20   wooden\_toys\_2.wav
  ---- ------------------------------

Table 3: Testvectors specifically relevant for the objective testing of
the SBR tool

  ---- ----------------------- ------------
  \#   Test vector file name   SBR module
  21   noise\_fade.wav         Envelope
  12   hihat.wav               Transients
  1    ct\_castagnettes.wav    Transients
  22   sines.wav               Sines
  21   noise\_fade.wav         Noise
  23   invf.wav                Whitening
  ---- ----------------------- ------------

Table 4: Testvectors specifically relevant for the objective testing of
the PS tool

  ---- ----------------------- --------------
  \#   Test vector file name   PS parameter
  3    ct\_test\_1\_48.wav     IID
  2    ct\_glockenspiel.wav    IID
  3    ct\_test\_1\_48.wav     ICC
  18   triangle.wav            ICC
  ---- ----------------------- --------------

######## Annex C (informative): Change history

  -------------------- -------------- -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                          
  **Date**             **TSGÂ SA\#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                         **Old**   **New**
  2005-06              28             SP-050242                         Approved at TSG SA\#28                                                                      2.0.0     6.0.0
  2005-12              30             SP-050786      0001     2         Correction to Enhanced aacPlus Encoder conformance                                          6.0.0     6.1.0
  2006-03              31             SP-060013      0002               Correction to Enhanced aacPlus Decoder conformance: replacement of one test-vector          6.1.0     6.2.0
  2006-06              32             SP-060354      0004     1         Correction to Enhanced aacPlus Decoder conformance: clarification of conformance criteria   6.2.0     6.3.0
  2007-03              35             SP-070030      0005     1         Change of Enhanced aacPlus decoder conformance for the Parametric Stereo tool               6.3.0     7.0.0
  2008-12              42                                               Version for Release 8                                                                       7.0.0     8.0.0
  2009-12              46                                               Version for Release 9                                                                       8.0.0     9.0.0
  2011-03              51                                               Version for Release 10                                                                      9.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              57                                               Version for Release 11                                                                      10.0.0    11.0.0
  2014-09              65                                               Version for Release 12                                                                      11.0.0    12.0.0
  2015-12              70                                               Version for Release 13                                                                      12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- -------------- -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  2017-03              75                                                    Version for Release 14           14.0.0
  2018-06              80                                                    Version for Release 15           15.0.0
  2020-07              \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
