### 5.2.4 Bass post-filter gain quantization

At 16.4 and 24.4 kbps, the bass post-filter gain is quantized on 2 bits.
First the signal is reconstructed as defined in subclause 6.1.3. The
bass post-filter is applied and the enhancement signal, $r(n)$ is
computed as described in subclause 6.1.4.2.

The residual signal is then low pass filtered in time domain by a
convolution with the impulse response $h_{\text{lp}}(n)$, impulse
response simulating the filtering done in CDLFB at the decoder side.
Moreover the signal is adjusted by an estimated gain Î± corresponding to
the attenuation factor of the anti-harmonic components. It is estimated
as follows;

$s_{e}(n) = - \alpha \cdot r(n) \ast h_{\text{lp}}(n)$ (1)

The optimal gain adjustment is computed as:

$\alpha_{\gamma} = - \frac{\sum_{n = 0}^{\text{63}}{(s(n) - \hat{s}(n)) \cdot s_{e}(n)}}{\sum_{n = 0}^{\text{63}}{(s(n) - \hat{s}(n))^{2}}}$
(2)

The optimal gain adjustment is quantized on 2 bits as follows:

$k = \text{min}(3\text{,max}(0,\left\lfloor 2 \cdot \alpha_{\gamma} + 0\text{.}5 \right\rfloor)$
(3)

The quantization is adjusted in case the delta SNR provided by the
estimated gain is detected as positive:

$\Delta\text{snr}_{\alpha} = \sum_{i = 0}^{L_{\text{subf}}}{\text{log}_{\text{10}}\frac{\sum_{n = 0}^{\text{63}}{(s(n + \text{64}i) - \hat{s}(n + \text{64}i))^{2}}}{\sum_{n = 0}^{\text{63}}{(s(n + \text{64}i) - \hat{s}(n + \text{64}i) + s_{e}(n))^{2}}}}$
(4)

The index *k* is then modified in the following way:

$k = \text{max}(1,k)\text{\ \ }\text{if}\text{\ \ }\Delta\text{snr}_{\alpha} > 0$
(5)

The again adjustment is decoded as follows

${\hat{\alpha}}_{\gamma} = \text{max}(0\text{.}5 \cdot k,0\text{.}\text{125}) \cdot \alpha$
(6)

### 5.2.5 Source Controlled VBR Coding

#### 5.2.5.1 Principles of VBR Coding

VBR coding \[20\] \[21\] describes a method that assigns different
number of bits to a speech frame in the coded domain depending on the
characteristics of the input speech signal. This method is often called
source-controlled coding as well. Typically, a source-controlled coder
encodes speech at different bit rates depending on how the current frame
is classified, e.g., voiced, unvoiced, transient, or silence. Note that
DTX operation can be combined with VBR coders in the same way as with
Fixed Rate (FR) coders; the VBR operation is related to active speech
segments.

The speech signal contains a varying amount of information across time,
due to the way the human speech production system operates. Stationary
voiced and unvoiced segments are good candidates to be encoded at lower
bit-rates with minimal impact to voice quality. Transient speech
contains information which is normally not well correlated to the past
signal, and therefore hard to predict from the past. As a result, they
are typically encoded at the higher bit-rates. Therefore it is
reasonable to quantize each of the types of signals using only the
necessary amount of bits, which has to be varied for maximal efficiency
while at the same time minimizing the impact to voice quality.

The VBR solution provides narrowband and wideband coding using the bit
rates 2.8, 7.2 and 8.0 kbps and produces an average bit rate at 5.9
kbps.

The Average Data Rate (ADR) control mechanism in subclause 5.2.5.5
relies on properties of the human speech production system, which do not
apply well across different types of music signals. In such cases, the
ADR for VBR mode starts approaching the most frequently used peak rate
of 7.2 kbps. Due to the finer bit allocation, in comparison to Fixed
Rate (FR) coding, VBR offers the advantage of a better speech quality at
the same average active bit rate than FR coding at the given bit rate.
The benefits of VBR can be exploited if the transmission network
supports the transmission of speech frames (packets) of variable size,
such as in LTE and UMTS networks.

#### 5.2.5.2 EVS VBR Encoder Coding Modes and Bit-Rates

The signal classification algorithm described in subclause 5.1.13 forms
the basis for coding mode selection in the VBR encoder. In addition to
the coding modes described in subclause 5.1.13, the VBR encoder
introduces two low bit-rate (2.8 kbps) coding modes called PPP
(Prototype Pitch Period) for voiced speech and NELP (Noise Excited
Linear Prediction) for unvoiced speech. The Transition Coding (TC) mode
uses 8 kbps and all other coding modes operate at 7.2 kbps. The VBR mode
targets an average bit-rate of 5.9 kbps by adjusting the proportion of
the low bit-rate (2.8 kbps) and high bit-rate (7.2, 8 kbps) frames for
optimal voice quality.

Next, we describe the VBR specific algorithmic modules and the average
rate control mechanism.

#### 5.2.5.3 Prototype-Pitch-Period (PPP) Encoding

##### 5.2.5.3.1 PPP Algorithm

It was the perceptual importance of the periodicity in voiced speech
that motivated the development of the (Prototype Pitch Period) PPP
coding technique. PPP exploits the fact that pitch-cycle waveforms in a
voiced segment do not change quickly in a frame. This suggests that we
do not have to transmit every pitch-cycle to the decoder; instead, we
could transmit just a representative prototype pitch period. At the
decoder, the non-transmitted pitch-cycle waveforms could then be derived
by means of interpolation. In this way, very low bit-rate coding can be
achieved while maintaining high quality reconstructed voiced speech.
Figure 1 illustrates an example of how the pitch-cycle waveforms are
extracted and interpolated. We will refer these pitch-cycle waveforms as
Prototype Pitch Periods (abbreviated as PPPs).

![](media/image1.wmf){width="6.495138888888889in"
height="4.158333333333333in"}

Figure 41: Illustration of principles of PPP coding \[20\]

The quantization of PPP is carried out in frequency domain. Hence the
time-domain signal is converted to a discrete-Fourier series (DFS),
whose amplitudes and phases are independently quantized.

Figure 42 presents a high-level schematic diagram of PPP coding scheme.
Front-end processing including LPC analysis is same for this scheme. The
LSP quantization scheme for the PPP mode is the same as that of the
Voiced Coding (VC) mode.

![](media/image2.wmf){width="6.397222222222222in"
height="2.932638888888889in"}

Figure 42: Block diagram of PPP coding scheme \[20\]

After computing the residual signal, a PPP is extracted from the
residual signal on a frame-wise basis. The length of the PPP is
determined by the lag estimate supplied by the pitch estimator. Special
attention needs to be paid to the boundaries of the PPP during the
extraction process. Since each PPP will undergo circular rotation in the
alignment process (as will be seen later), the energy around the PPP
boundaries needs to be minimized to prevent discontinuities after
circular rotation (where the left side of the PPP meets the right side).
Such minimization can be accomplished by slightly jittering the location
of the extraction. After the extraction, the PPP of the current frame
needs to be time-aligned with the PPP extracted from the previous frame.
Specifically, the current PPP is circularly shifted until it has the
maximum cross-correlation with the previous PPP. The alignment process
serves two purposes: Firstly, it facilitates PPP quantization especially
in low-bit-rate predictive quantization schemes, and secondly it
facilitates the construction of the whole frame of excitation in the
synthesis procedure which will be discussed next. The aligned PPPs are
then quantized and transmitted to the decoder. To create a full-frame of
excitation from the current and previous PPPs, we need to compute an
instantaneous phase track which is designed carefully so as to achieve
maximum time-synchrony with the original residual signal. For this
purpose, a cubic phase track can be employed along with four boundary
conditions:

\(1\) the initial lag value,

\(2\) the initial phase offset,

\(3\) the final lag value and

\(4\) the final phase offset.

Having created the entire frame of quantized residual, the decoder
concludes its operation with LPC synthesis filter and memory updates.

##### 5.2.5.3.2 Amplitude Quantization

The DFS amplitude is first normalized by two scaling factors at the
encoder -- one for the low band and one for the high band. The two
resulting scaling factors are vector-quantized in the logarithmic domain
and transmitted to the decoder. The normalized spectrum is
non-uniformly-downsampled/averaged to transform a variable dimension
vector (pitch lag dependent) to a fixed dimension vector. The Equivalent
Rectangular Bandwidth (ERB) auditory scale is used for the
downsampling/averaging process which helps to model the
frequency-dependent frequency resolution of the human auditory system
and removes perceptually irrelevant information in the spectra. The
downsampled spectrum is split into a low band and high band spectra,
each of which is separately quantized. At the decoder, the low and the
high band spectra are first reconstructed from the bit-stream
transmitted from the encoder. The two spectra are then combined and sent
to a non-uniform spectral upsampler. Afterwards, the scaling factors
recovered from the bit-stream are used to denormalize the upsampled
spectrum to reconstruct the quantized spectrum. Both the scaling factors
and the spectra are quantized differentially to ensure minimal bit
consumption.

##### 5.2.5.3.3 Phase Quantization

The phase spectrum of the current PPP can be readily derived by
combining the phase spectrum of the previous PPP and the contributions
from a simplified pitch contour derived from the previous and current
frame pitch lags. Finally, the number of samples needed to align the
pitch pulse of the quantized PPP with that of the original residual
signal is computed and sent to the decoder. This helps with closed loop
pitch search in the subsequent ACELP frame.

#### 5.2.5.4 Noise-Excited-Linear-Prediction (NELP) Encoding

The objective of NELP coding is to accurately capture unvoiced segments
of speech using a minimal number of bits per frame. Front-end processing
including LPC analysis is same for this scheme. The LSP quantization
scheme for the NELP mode is the same as that of the Unvoiced Coding (UC)
mode. The resulting residual signal is then divided into smaller
sub-frames whose gains are computed and quantized. The quantized gains
are applied to a randomly generated sparse excitation which is then
shaped by a set of bandpass filters. The spectral characteristics of the
shaped excitation are analyzed and compared to the spectral
characteristics of the original residual signal. Based on this analysis,
a filter is chosen to further shape the spectral characteristics of the
excitation to achieve optimal performance.

#### 5.2.5.5 Average Data Rate (ADR) Control for the EVS VBR mode

This section describes an ADR control mechanism which ensures the
compliance of ADR requirements under a wide variety of language and
noise type mix. The average rate control is done by a combination of
threshold changes and the change of the high rate and low rate frame
selection pattern. A set of thresholds referred to as bump-up thresholds
play a key role in the rate control algorithm. When coding PPP frames,
the encoder runs a set of checks to verify whether the given frame is
suited for PPP mode of coding. If the set of checks fail the PPP coding
module decides the given frame is not suitable for PPP coding and the
frame is coded as a high rate frame (H-frame). This rejection is
referred to as a "bump-up". There are two types of bump-ups used in the
PPP coding module.

1\. Open loop bump-ups: Bump-up is performed before the prototype pitch
period wave form is coded. For example if the pitch lag difference
between the current and previous frame is more than a certain threshold,
the PPP coding module decides that the current frame is not suitable for
PPP coding.

2\. Closed-loop bump-ups: This is done after the prototype pitch period
waveform is coded. For example if the energy ratio of the prototype
pitch waveform before and after the quantization is not within a certain
set of thresholds, the PPP coding module abandons the PPP mode of coding
and subsequently that frame is coded using high rate coding. In general
the close loop bump-ups make sure the PPP coding is in good quality.

The PPP coding module decides the current speech frame as clean speech
or noisy speech by comparing the current frame's SNR against a
threshold. This threshold is referred to as the clean and noisy speech
threshold ($\text{TH}$) which is localized to the PPP coding module. If
the SNR of the current frame is more than $\text{TH}$ then the current
frame is classified as a clean speech frame or as a noisy speech frame
otherwise. For each of the two cases (clean and noisy) there are two
sets of bump up thresholds, resulting four sets of bump up thresholds
collectively. For clean speech the two bump up threshold sets consist of
a strict set $T\text{CL}1$ (a strict set of bump up thresholds resulting
more bump ups) and a relaxed set $T\text{CL}2$(a relaxed set of bump up
thresholds resulting less bump ups). Similarly there are two similar
bump up threshold sets available for noisy speech $TN1$ and $TN2$. Clean
speech bump up threshold sets are more stricter compared to
corresponding noisy speech bump up threshold sets ($T\text{CL}1$ creates
more bump ups compared to $TN1$ and similarly $T\text{CL}2$ creates more
bump ups compared to $TN2$).

ADR Control mechanism is introduced based on multiple steps depending on
long term ADR, short term ADR (ADR during last 600 frames) and the
target rate. Following rate control mechanisms are picked based on the
long term and short term average rates to achieve the desired average
rate.

a\. Change the threshold ($\text{TH}$) which classifies the speech as
clean or noisy. Increasing $\text{TH}$ classifies more frames as noisy
speech and reduces the number frames classified as clean. At this point
$T\text{CL}1$ and $TN1$ threshold sets are used for bump ups. However by
classifying more frames as noisy speech, more frames will use the
threshold set $TN1$ thus lesser number of bump ups will occur.

b\. Use a low rate (L) and high rate (H) frame pattern which generates
more low rate frames. For example we can set the default pattern to LHH
and change the pattern to LLH to obtain more L frames, which reduces the
ADR.

c\. Use relaxed PPP bump up threshold sets ( $T\text{CL}2$ and $TN2$)
for both clean and noisy speech. This reduces the number of bump ups
thus more L frames are generated. In item (a) we increased the threshold
($\text{TH}$) which classifies the speech frames as clean or noisy
without relaxing the corresponding PPP bump up thresholds (used
$T\text{CL}1$ and $TN1$).

d\. Impact the open loop voicing and un-voicing decisions to reduce the
rate by increasing PPP and NELP frames.

e\. Apart from rate reduction mechanisms, the algorithm utilizes a
speech quality improvement strategy if the global rate is less than the
target rate by a specific margin. To achieve that a percentage of the L
frames are sent to H frames to improve the speech quality.

The objective of the ADR control algorithm is to keep the average data
rate of the VBR mode at 5.9 kbps and not to exceed it by 5%. The target
rate is set by the algorithm (e.g. 5.9 kbps) and short term and long
term average rates are computed to control different actions given in
items (a) through (e) above.

The average rate during last N frames or the short term average rate
($R_{\text{Last}\ N\ \text{frames}} =$ average of last 600 active
frames) is used to compute the long term average rate as follows.
$R\text{LT}(n)$ is updated after every N active frames. The value
$\alpha$ is selected as 0.98.

$R_{\text{LT}}\left( n \right) = \alpha\text{.}R_{\text{LT}}\left( n - 1 \right) + \left( 1 - \alpha \right)\text{.}R_{\text{Last}\ N\ \text{frames}}$
(663)

The rate control is done in multiple steps. If the long term average
rate $R\text{LT}$ is larger than the target rate, the clean and noise
decision threshold $\text{TH}$ (in above (a)) is increased in steps. If
the $R\text{LT}$ cannot be reduced with the maximum $\text{TH}$ value,
the encoder will use the LLH pattern to generate more quarter rate PPP
frames. If the $R\text{LT}$ is not reduced below the target rate, bump
up thresholds are relaxed (item (c) above). Finally the open loop voiced
and unvoiced decisions are relaxed such that the number of PPP and NELP
frames will be increased to control the average rate.

Once the $R\text{LT}$ is reduced below the target rate, the rate control
mechanisms are relaxed gradually. First the open loop decision
thresholds are restored to the values before the aggressive rate
control. The next step is to revert to the lesser aggressive bump up
thresholds ($T\text{CL}1$and $TN1$). If the long term average rate is
still well under the target rate, frame selection pattern LLH is
reverted back to LHH and then the noise decision threshold $\text{TH}$
is gradually reduced to its default value.

If the long term average rate $R\text{LT}$ is well under control and
below a minimum target rate$R_{\text{target}} - \Delta_{\text{tol2}}$
speech quality improvement algorithm in (e) is exercised by converting
some of the low rate PPP frames (L frames) into high rate H frames.

Figure 43 shows the flow chart of the average rate control based on this
method. Table 1 contains the summary of the terms used in the flowchart
in figure 44.

Table 51: Summary of the terms used in the flowchart

  ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Symbol**   **Description**
               Set to 1 if the LLH pattern is used. Set to 0 if LHH pattern is used
               Maximum value for the clean and noisy speech decision threshold
               Set to 1 if the relaxed bump up thresholds is used. Set to 0 otherwise
               Long term average data rate
               Target average date rate
               Rate tolerance 1. (e.g. set to 0.1 kbps for a target rate of 6.1 kbps target rate)
               Rate tolerance 1. (e.g. set to 0.05 kbps for a target rate of 6.1 kbps target rate)
               Set size to increase the $\text{TH}$ ( value for the clean and noisy speech decision threshold)
               Set size to decrease the $\text{TH}$ ( value for the clean and noisy speech decision threshold)
               Set to 1 if open loop voicing/unvoicing decisions are changed to have more PPP and NELP frames. Set to 0 otherwise.
  ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Figure 45: Average rate control in Variable Bit-Rate Coding
