![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.5215277777777778in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#__RefHeading___Toc517373099)

[6](#contents-of-the-c-source-code)

[7](#program-execution)

[7](#file-formats)

[7](#speech-file-encoder-input-decoder-output)

[8](#rate-switching-profile-encoder-input)

[8](#parameter-bitstream-file-encoder-output-decoder-input)

[8](#itu-t-g.192-compliant-format)

[8](#compact-storage-format-file)

[8](#voip-parameter-bitstream-file-decoder-input)

[8](#bandwidth-switching-profile-encoder-input)

[9](#channel-aware-configuration-file-encoder-input-and-decoder-output)

[9](#jbm-trace-file-decoder-output)

[10](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 C code
structure 4.1 Contents of the C source code 4.2 Program execution 5 File
formats 5.1 Speech file (encoder input / decoder output) 5.2 Rate
switching profile (encoder input) 5.3 Parameter bitstream file (encoder
output / decoder input) 5.3.1 ITU-T G.192 compliant format 5.3.2 Compact
storage format file 5.4 VoIP parameter bitstream file (decoder input)
5.5 Bandwidth switching profile (encoder input) 5.6 Channel-aware
configuration file (encoder input and decoder output) 5.7 JBM trace file
(decoder output) Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document contains an electronic copy of the ANSI‑C code for
the Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) Codec. The ANSI‑C code is necessary
for a bit exact implementation of the EVS Codec (3GPP TS 26.445), Voice
Activity Detection (VAD) (3GPP TS 26.451), Comfort Noise Generation
(CNG) (3GPP TS 26.449), Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) (3GPP TS
26.450), Packet Loss Concealment (PLC) of Lost Packets (3GPP TS 26.447),
Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) (3GPP TS 26.448), and AMR-WB
Interoperable Function (3GPP TS 26.446).

Requirements for any implementation of the EVS codec to be standard
compliant are specified in 3GPP TS 26.444 (Test sequences).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS);
Detailed Algorithmic Description \".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 26.451: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice
Activity Detection (VAD)\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 26.449: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort
Noise Generation (CNG) Aspects\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS);
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
Concealment of Lost Packets\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 26.448: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter
Buffer Management\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 26.446: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); AMR-WB
Backward Compatible Functions\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 26.444: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Test
Sequences\".

\[10\] IETF RFC 3550: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\".

\[11\] Recommendation ITU-T G.191 (03/10): \"Software tools for speech
and audio coding standardization\".

\[12\] Recommendation ITU-T G.192: \"A common digital parallel interface
for speech standardization activities\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

Definition of terms used in the present document, can be found in 3GPP
TS 26.445 \[2\], 3GPP TS 26.451 \[3\], 3GPP TS 26.449 \[4\], 3GPP
TS 26.450 \[5\], 3GPP TS 26.447 \[6\], 3GPP TS 26.448 \[7\] and 3GPP
TS 26.446 \[8\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

ACELP Algebraic Code-Excited Linear Prediction

AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wideband (codec)

CNG Comfort Noise Generator

DTX Discontinuous Transmission

EVS Enhanced Voice Services

FB Fullband

FEC Frame Erasure Concealment

IP Internet Protocol

JBM Jitter Buffer Management

MSB Most Significant Bit

MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS

NB Narrowband

PS Packet Switched

PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network

SAD Sound Activity Detection

SC-VBR Source Controlled - Variable Bit Rate

SID Silence Insertion Descriptor

SWB Super Wideband

VAD Voice Activity Detection

WB Wideband

WMOPS Weighted Millions of Operations Per Second

4 C code structure
==================

This clause gives an overview of the structure of the bit‑exact C code
and provides an overview of the contents and organization of the C code
attached to the present document.

The C code has been verified on the following systems:

\- IBM PC compatible computers with Windows 7 or 8 operating system and
Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 compiler, 32 bit builds.

\- IBM PC compatible computers with Linux operating system and GNU gcc
compiler version 4.3.x, 32 bit builds.

ANSI‑C was selected as the programming language because portability was
desirable.

4.1 Contents of the C source code
---------------------------------

The C code distribution is organized as follows:

Table 1: Source code directory structure

  ------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  Directory          Description
  README.txt         information on how to compile
  Makefile           UNIX style encoder Makefile
  Workspace\_msvc/   Directory for the MSVC 2010 project files
  basic\_op/         Source code files containing all ITU-T fixed-point basic operators.
  basic\_math/       Source code files contains mathematical fixed-point functions
  lib\_com/          Source code files used in encoder and decoder
  lib\_dec/          Source code files used solely in the decoder
  lib\_enc/          Source code files used solely in the encoder
  ------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------

The distributed files with suffix \"c\" contain the source code and the
files with suffix \"h\" are the header files. The ROM data is contained
in files named \"rom\_xxx\" with suffix \"c\".

Makefiles are provided for the platforms in which the C code has been
verified (listed above). Once the software is installed, this directory
will have a compiled version of the encoder (named EVS\_cod) and the
decoder (named EVS\_dec).

4.2 Program execution
---------------------

The codec for Enhanced Voice Services is implemented in two programs:

*-* EVS\_cod: speech/audio encoder;

*-* EVS\_dec: speech/audio decoder.

The programs should be called like:

\- EVS\_cod \[encoder options\] \<speech/audio input file\> \<parameter
file\>;

\- EVS\_dec \[decoder options\]\<parameter file\> \<speech/audio output
file\>.

The speech/audio files contain 16-bit linear encoded PCM speech/audio
samples and the parameter files contain encoded speech/audio data.

The encoder and decoder options will be explained by running the
applications without input arguments. See the file readme.txt for more
information on how to run the *encoder* and *decoder* programs.

5 File formats
==============

This clause describes the file formats used by the encoder and decoder
programs. The test sequences defined in \[1 also use the file formats
described here.

5.1 Speech file (encoder input / decoder output)
------------------------------------------------

Speech files read by the encoder and written by the decoder consist of
16-bit words speech/audio sample. The byte order depends on the host
architecture (e.g. LSByte first on PCs, etc.). Both the encoder and the
decoder program process complete frames (corresponding to 20 ms, for
example, 640 samples at 32 kHz sampling frequency) only.

The encoder will pad the last frame to integer multiples of 20ms frames,
i.e. n speech frames will be produced from an input file with a length
between \[(n-1)\*20ms+1 sample; n\*20ms\]. The files produced by the
decoder will always have a length of n\*20ms.

5.2 Rate switching profile (encoder input)
------------------------------------------

The encoder program can optionally read in a rate switching profile
which specifies the encoding bitrate for each frame of speech processed.
The file is a binary file, generated by \'gen-rate-profile\', which is
part of STL 2009, as contained in ITU-T G.191 \[11\]. The rate switching
profile can contain EVS primary mode bitrates and AMR-WB IO mode
bitrates arbitrarily. I.e. switching between the two modes can be
specified by the rate switching profile.

5.3 Parameter bitstream file (encoder output / decoder input)
-------------------------------------------------------------

The files produced by the speech/audio encoder/expected by the speech
decoder contain an arbitrary number of frames in the following available
formats.

### 5.3.1 ITU-T G.192 compliant format

  ------------ -------------- ---- ---- ----- -----
  SYNC\_WORD   DATA\_LENGTH   B1   B2   ...   Bnn
  ------------ -------------- ---- ---- ----- -----

Each box corresponds to one Word16 value in the bitstream file, for a
total of 2+nn words or 4+2nn bytes per frame, where nn is the number of
encoded bits in the frame. Each encoded bit is represented as follows:
Bit 0 = 0x007f, Bit 1 = 0x0081. The fields have the following meaning:

\- SYNC\_WORD: Word to ensure correct frame synchronization between the
encoder and the decoder. It is also used to indicate the occurrences of
bad frames.

In the encoder output: (0x6b21)

In the decoder input: Good frames (0x6b21)

Bad frames (0x6b20)

\- DATA\_LENGTH: Length of the speech data. Codec mode and frame type is
extracted in the decoder using this parameter

### 5.3.2 Compact storage format file

The encoder and decoder programs can optionally write and read a file in
the octet-based compact storage format. The compact storage format is
specified in Annex A.2.6 of \[2\].

5.4 VoIP parameter bitstream file (decoder input)
-------------------------------------------------

  ------------- -------------- ------------ --------------------------
  Packet size   Arrival time   RTP header   G.192 format (see 5.3.1)
  ------------- -------------- ------------ --------------------------

The fields have the following size and meaning:

\- Packet size: 32 bit unsigned integer. (= 12 + 2 + DATA\_LENGTH)

\- Arrival time: 32 bit unsigned integer. in ms.

\- RTP header: 96 bits (see RFC 3550 \[10\]), including RTP timestamp
and SSRC.

5.5 Bandwidth switching profile (encoder input)
-----------------------------------------------

The encoder program can optionally read in a bandwidth switching
profile, which specifies the encoding bandwidth for each frame of speech
processed. The file is a text file where each line contains \"nb\_frames
B\". B specifies the signal bandwidth that is one of the supported four
bandwidths, i.e. NB, WB, SWB or FB. And \"nb\_frames\" is an integer
number of frames and specifies the duration of activation of the
accompanied signal bandwidth B.

5.6 Channel-aware configuration file (encoder input and decoder output)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The encoder program can optionally read in a configuration file which
specifies the values of FEC indicator p and FEC offset o, where FEC
indicator, p: LO or HI, and FEC offset, o: 2, 3, 5, or 7 in number of
frames. Each line of the configuration file contains the values of p and
o separated by a space.

The channel-aware configuration file is meant to simulate channel
feedback from a receiver to a sender, i.e. the decoder would generate
FEC indication and FEC offset values for receiver feedback that
correspond to the current transmission channel characteristics, thereby
allowing optimization of the transmission by the encoder which applies
the FEC offset and FEC indication when in the channel-aware mode.

5.7 JBM trace file (decoder output)
-----------------------------------

The decoder can generate a JBM trace file with the --Tracefile switch as
a by-product of the decoder operation in case of JBM operation (which is
triggered with the --VOIP switch on the decoder side).

The trace file is a CSV file with semi-colon as separator. The trace
file starts with one header line that contains the column names in the
following order:

rtpSeqNo;rtpTs;rcvTime;playtime;active

For each played out speech frame one entry is written to the trace file.
The interval of the playtime values is usually 20ms, but may differ,
depending on the JBM operation. Each entry is a line in the trace file
that contains values as specified in Table 1.

Table 1: JBM trace file entry format

  ---------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name       Unit     Description
  rtpSeqNo   1        RTP sequence number of played out speech frame. -1 if no corresponding RTP packet for the speech frame exists.
  rtpTs      ms       RTP time stamp of played out speech frame. -1 if no corresponding RTP packet for the speech frame exists
  rcvTime    ms       Absolute reception time of the RTP packet that corresponds to the speech frame. -1 if no corresponding RTP packet for the speech frame exists.
  playtime   ms       Absolute play time (i.e. the time at which the PCM data is made available by the decoder). Can be floating-point value.
  active     0 or 1   Binary entry, which is set to 1 for active speech frames (i.e. frames that are neither SID nor NO\_DATA)
  ---------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                            
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                               **New version**
  2014-09              SA\#65        SP-140458                                Presented at TSG SA\#65 foir approval                                             1.0.0
  2014-09              SA\#65                                                 Approved at TSG SA\#65                                                            12.0.0
  2014-12              SA\#66        SP-140724   0001     \-                  Cleanup of EVS Fixed Point Source Code                                            12.1.0
  2014-12              SA\#66        SP-140724   0002     \-                  Bugfixes to EVS Fixed Point Source Code                                           12.1.0
  2014-12              SA\#66        SP-140724   0003     1                   Update of Scope                                                                   12.1.0
  2015-03              SA\#67        SP-150083   0004     1                   Corrections to the text of the specification                                      12.2.0
  2015-03              SA\#67        SP-150083   0005     \-                  Removal of Floating Point remants in the EVS Fixed Point Source Code              12.2.0
  2015-03              SA\#67        SP-150083   0006     2                   Bugfixes to EVS Fixed Point Source Code                                           12.2.0
  2015-03              SA\#67        SP-150083   0007     3                   Implementation of the compact storage format in the EVS Fixed Point Source Code   12.2.0
  2015-06              SA\#68        SP-150200   0009     \-                  Bugfixes to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                           12.3.0
  2015-09              SA\#69        SP-150434   0010     1                   Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                        12.4.0
  2015-12              SA\#70        SP-150639   0011     \-                  Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                        12.5.0
  2015-12              SA\#70                                                 Version for Release 13                                                            13.0.0
  2016-03              SA\#71        SP-160064   0013     \-                  Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                        13.1.0
  2016-06              SA\#72        SP-160257   0015     \-        A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                        13.2.0
  2016-09              SA\#73        SP-160589   0017     \-        A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                        13.3.0
  2016-09              SA\#73        SP-160589   0019     \-        A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                        13.3.0
  2017-03              SA\#75        SP-170019   0021     \-        A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                        13.4.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                                                                       **New version**
  2017-03              75                                                     Version for Release 14                                                                                                                                                    14.0.0
  2017-12              78            SP-170820   0024     1         A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                                                                                                                14.1.0
  2018-06              80            C261        0028     \-        A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                                                                                                                14.2.0
  2018-06              80                                 \-                  Version for Release 15                                                                                                                                                    15.0.0
  2018-12              82            SP-180965   0032     \-        A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                                                                                                                15.1.0
  2020-06              SA\#88-e      SP-200585   0036     1         A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                                                                                                                15.2.0
  2020-07              \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                                                                                                            **16.0.0**
  2020-11              Post 89-e                                              \[Editorial\] Correction of the attached filename to \'26442-cc0\_d70\_e30\_f20\_g10-ANSI-C\_source\_code\' from \'26442-cc0\_d70\_e30\_f10\_g00-ANSI-C\_source\_code\'   **16.1.0**
  2021-02              Post 90-e                                              \[Editorial\] Correction of the attached filename to 26442-cd0\_d80\_e40\_f20\_g00-ANSI-C\_source\_code\' from 26442-cd0\_d80\_e40\_f20\_g20-ANSI-C\_source\_code\'       **16.2.0**
  2021-9               SA\#93-e      SP-210825   0043     1         A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                                                                                                                **16.3.0**
  2021-12              SA\#94-e      SP-211345   0048     \-        A         Corrections to EVS Fixed-Point Source Code                                                                                                                                **16.4.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
