![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[5](#introduction)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[7](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[7](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#overview)

[7](#introduction-1)

[7](#ue-based-and-network-based-architectures)

[7](#network-based-architecture)

[8](#ue-based-architecture)

[8](#parameters-for-srvcc-handover-thresholds)

[8](#description)

[9](#potential-solutions)

[9](#robustness-indication)

[9](#maximum-packet-loss-rate-plr)

[9](#general)

[9](#max-plr-recommendation-without-application-layer-redundancy)

[9](#max-plr-recommendation-with-application-layer-redundancy)

[11](#conclusion)

[11](#codec-mode-adaptation-procedures)

[11](#description-1)

[11](#potential-solutions-1)

[11](#adaptation-to-packet-loss)

[11](#conclusion-1)

[11](#adaptation-capability-indication)

[11](#description-2)

[12](#potential-solutions-2)

[12](#sdp-indication)

[12](#sdp-indication-1)

[13](#application-layer-redundancy-adaptation-request)

[13](#general-1)

[13](#signal-method-1-rtcp-app)

[13](#signal-method-2-rtp-cmr-using-the-reserved-cmr-codepoints)

[15](#signal-method-3-padding)

[15](#signal-method-4-rtp-header-extension)

[16](#conclusions-on-application-layer-redundancy)

[16](#considerations-on-the-impact-of-packet-loss-on-adaptation-requests)

[16](#conclusion-2)

[17](#impact-of-jbm-and-plc-on-handover-thresholds)

[17](#description-3)

[17](#potential-solutions-3)

[17](#general-2)

[18](#ue-requested-ul-and-dl-plr)

[18](#general-3)

[18](#simple-ratio)

[19](#sdp-negotiated)

[20](#dynamic-allocation-of-ul-plr-and-dl-plr)

[30](#network-requested-ul-and-dl-plr)

[30](#general-4)

[30](#simple-ratio-1)

[31](#sdp-negotiated-1)

[31](#pcrf-negotiated)

[32](#pcrf-negotiated-using-single-sdp-parameter)

[32](#dynamic-allocation-of-ul-plr-and-dl-plr-1)

[32](#conclusion-3)

[33](#conclusions)

[35](#annex-a-informal-objective-and-subjective-experiments-for-obtaining-max.-plr-operating-points-with-and-without-application-layer-redundancy)

[38](#annex-b-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2 References
3 Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Overview 4.1 Introduction 4.2 UE-based and Network-based Architectures
4.2.1 Network-based Architecture 4.2.2 UE-based Architecture 5
Parameters for SRVCC Handover Thresholds 5.1 Description 5.2 Potential
Solutions 5.2.1 Robustness Indication 5.2.1.1 Maximum Packet Loss Rate
(PLR) 5.2.1.1.1 General 5.2.1.1.2 Max PLR recommendation without
Application Layer Redundancy 5.2.1.1.3 Max PLR recommendation with
Application Layer Redundancy 5.3 Conclusion 6 Codec Mode Adaptation
Procedures 6.1 Description 6.2 Potential Solutions 6.2.1 Adaptation to
Packet Loss 6.3 Conclusion 7 Adaptation Capability Indication 7.1
Description 7.2 Potential Solutions 7.2.1 SDP Indication 7.2.1 SDP
Indication 7.2.2 Application Layer Redundancy Adaptation Request 7.2.2.1
General 7.2.2.2 Signal method 1: RTCP-APP 7.2.2.3 Signal method 2: RTP
CMR using the Reserved CMR codepoints 7.2.2.4 Signal method 3: Padding
7.2.2.5 Signal method 4: RTP header extension 7.2.2.6 Conclusions on
Application Layer Redundancy 7.2.3 Considerations on the impact of
packet loss on adaptation requests 7.3 Conclusion 8 Impact of JBM and
PLC on Handover Thresholds 8.1 Description 8.2 Potential Solutions 8.2.1
General 8.2.2 UE-requested UL and DL PLR 8.2.2.1 General 8.2.2.2 Simple
Ratio 8.2.2.3 SDP-Negotiated 8.2.2.4 Dynamic Allocation of UL PLR and DL
PLR 8.2.3 Network-requested UL and DL PLR 8.2.3.1 General 8.2.3.2 Simple
Ratio 8.2.3.3 SDP-Negotiated 8.2.3.4 PCRF-Negotiated 8.2.3.5
PCRF-Negotiated using single SDP parameter 8.2.3.6 Dynamic Allocation of
UL PLR and DL PLR 8.3 Conclusion 9 Conclusions Annex A: Informal
Objective and Subjective Experiments for Obtaining Max. PLR Operating
Points with and without Application Layer Redundancy Annex B: Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

Voice-over-LTE (VoLTE) may require better LTE Reference Signal Received
Power (RSRP) compared to data service, i.e. while the LTE radio signal
may be good enough for pure data session, it may not be reliable enough
for VoLTE services. In scenarios where the radio network is dimensioned
for data services, eNB may trigger SRVCC handover to CS, e.g. when the
UE falls into marginal or weak LTE coverage or when an EPS bearer with
QCI-1 reliability is not sufficiently met.

In certain network dimensioning, the VoLTE coverage border may be a
function of the selected codec and its selected configuration, its rate
and mode adaptation, and potentially the applied application layer
redundancy, as well as the required QoS of the VoLTE bearer. In these
cases, legacy RAN might unnecessarily hand over fairly good VoLTE calls
to 2G/3G CS via SRVCC HO, because it is unaware of the robustness of the
selected codec. Radio Resource Management functions could potentially
avoid unnecessary SRVCC HOs, if appropriate information is made
available.

TS 26.114 (which is used as basis for the GSMA IR.92 VoLTE profile)
includes several tools for increased robustness of speech calls with
initial selection of Codecs and their Configuration and in-call dynamic
rate and mode adaptation and maybe application layer full redundancy.
EVS, especially the EVS Channel Aware mode, demonstrates higher
robustness against transmission errors than AMR and AMR-WB codecs by
application-layer partial redundancy.

The present document investigates possible solutions to maintain voice
quality on LTE as high as possible and by that avoiding or at least
delaying SRVCC as much as possible and by that minimize the negative
impact on user experience for VoLTE subscribers in areas with weak LTE
coverage.

The recommendations and conclusions of this document were used to
develop the Coverage and Handoff Enhancements for Multimedia (CHEM)
feature which extended beyond SRVCC and LTE to general handoffs. Aside
from inter-domain handoffs, this added intra-domain handoffs that also
includes intra-system and inter-system handoffs for any type of media.
Normative and informative annexes for this are specified in 3GPP TS
26.114 \[3\].

1 Scope
=======

The present document provides a study on the enhanced VoLTE performance
(eVoLP). The study focuses on:

\- Guidelines or requirements to ensure that MTSI clients send requests
to adapt to robust modes of codec operation when necessary. This study
may require investigating performance results for different conditions
and adaptation procedures.

\- Mechanisms to indicate at setup a terminal\'s ability to send
adaptation triggers (e.g. to adapt to the most robust codec mode).

\- Evaluate the impact of proprietary client implementations of
Packet-Loss Concealment and Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) on having
different Max PLR and potential mechanisms to indicate this to the
network.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TR 21.952: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS);
Performance characterization\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia
telephony; Media handling and interaction\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS);
Detailed algorithmic description\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\"

\[6\] IETF RFC 4585 (2006): \"Extended RTP Profile for Real-time
Transport Control Protocol (RTCP) - Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)\", J. Ott,
S. Wenger, N. Sato, C. Burmeister and J. Rey.

\[7\] Rep. ITU-R M.2135: \"Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface
technologies for IMT-Advanced\", 2008.

> \[8\] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
>
> \[9\] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)
> enhancements for Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
> (E-UTRAN) access\".
>
> \[10\] 3GPP TR 23.759: \"Study for enhanced Voice Over LTE (VoLTE)
> Performance\".
>
> \[11\] GSMA IR.92 (06/2017): \"IMS Profile for Voice and SMS v11.0\".
>
> \[12\] IETF RFC 4867: \"RTP Payload Format and File Storage Format for
> the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
> (AMR-WB) Audio Codecs\", J. Sjoberg, M. Westerlund, A. Lakaniemi, Q.
> Xie.
>
> \[13\] IETF RFC 3550 (2003): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
> Applications\", H. Schulzrinne, S. Casner, R. Frederick and V.
> Jacobson.

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

DL Downlink (from eNB to UE)

eVoLP Enhanced VoLTE performance

JBM Jitter buffer management

Max. PLR Maximum end-to-end packet loss rate

PLR Packet loss rate

UL Up-link (from UE to eNB)

4 Overview
==========

4.1 Introduction
----------------

4.2 UE-based and Network-based Architectures
--------------------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Network-based Architecture

The network-based solution relies on the fact that the information on
the negotiated codecs and configurations (or codec modes) for the
session is available in the PCRF through its knowledge of the SDP that
contains the negotiated session parameters. Based on such information,
the PCRF can derive the relevant robustness parameter information (e.g.
Maximum Packet Loss Rate) and signal this information to the eNB, using
the procedures defined in TS 23.203 \[8\] and TS 23.401 \[9\]. The
derivation of the robustness parameter information based on the
negotiated codec modes can be performed subject to a standardized
mapping rule, e.g. with an indication of packet loss rate for each codec
mode and calculation of the Maximum Packet Loss Rate based on the
negotiated codec modes. The network-based solution is depicted in Figure
4.1.

In this solution, the PCRF by default does not know the MTSI client
adaptation behavior, and would therefore set the robustness parameter
(e.g. Maximum Packet Loss Rate) based on the least robust codec mode
among the negotiated codec configurations. If however the PCRF knows
from the SDP that the MTSI client receiver supports adaptation to the
most robust codec mode, i.e. that the UE will request the sender to
change its encoder to a more robust mode when it detects packet losses,
then the PCRF could set the robustness parameter based on the most
robust codec mode, and thereby potentially enabling enhanced optimized
SRVCC handover performance. Such indication to the PCRF is enabled via
the new SDP parameter \'adapt\', see clause 7.2.1 for further details.

![](media/image3.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="1.5916666666666666in"}

Figure 4.1: Network-based solution to signal robustness information to
eNB

### 4.2.2 UE-based Architecture

The UE-based solution relies on the fact that the information on the
negotiated codecs and configurations (or codec modes) for the session is
available in the UE through its knowledge of the SDP that contains the
negotiated session parameters. Based on such information, the UE can
derive the relevant robustness parameter (e.g. Maximum Packet Loss Rate)
and signal this to the eNB. Such signaling from the UE to the eNB would
have to be defined in the RAN, e.g. via use of RRC signaling to carry
the robustness parameter information in TS 36.331 \[5\] (the exact
format of the signaling may be decided by RAN2). The derivation of the
robustness parameter information based on the negotiated codec modes can
be performed subject to a standardized mapping rule, e.g. with an
indication of packet loss rate for each codec mode and calculation of
the Maximum Packet Loss Rate based on the negotiated codec modes. The
UE-based solution is depicted in Figure 4.2.

For the UE-based solution, one can observe that the UE (i.e. MTSI
client) not only knows the negotiated codecs and configurations (or
codec modes), but also the selected codec configuration or mode for the
currently transmitted RTP stream, i.e. as determined via the outcome of
the media adaptation in the UE. As such, the UE can determine the packet
loss rate corresponding to the selected codec configuration and signal
the relevant robustness parameter information (e.g. MaxPLR) to the eNB.
Therefore, an indication at the SDP level via the \'adapt\' parameter as
described in clause 7.2.1 is not necessary for the UE-based signaling
solution, and an enhanced SRVCC handover performance can potentially be
ensured without supporting the \'adapt\' feature in the SDP and
enforcing a particular adaptation behavior on the MTSI client in the UE.
Moreover, depending on the change in the selected codec configuration or
mode, the UE can dynamically update the eNB on the corresponding
robustness parameter information, e.g. updated value for MaxPLR.

![](media/image4.png){width="6.691666666666666in"
height="1.5972222222222223in"}

Figure 4.2: UE-based solution to signal robustness information to eNB

5 Parameters for SRVCC Handover Thresholds
==========================================

5.1 Description
---------------

In this study, the parameters considered in TR 23.759 \[10\] are reused.
In particular Max PLR in UL and DL directions is a parameter that
indicates the maximum Packet Loss Rate that the specific codec mode is
able to experience without degrading the voice quality.

5.2 Potential Solutions
-----------------------

### 5.2.1 Robustness Indication 

#### 5.2.1.1 Maximum Packet Loss Rate (PLR)

##### 5.2.1.1.1 General

Based on the 3GPP EVS Selection and Characterization results that
included AMR-WB, AMR-WB encoder with ITU-T G718IO decoder, and EVS
codec, this clause provides an example set of Max. PLR operating points
that the terminal may indicate to the PCRF.

##### 5.2.1.1.2 Max PLR recommendation without Application Layer Redundancy

Table 5.1 provides an example Maximum PLR operating points based on the
EVS Selection and Characterization experiment results.

Based on the EVS Characterization experiment results, e.g. Figure 11.10
and Figure 11.17 in TR 26.952 \[2\] the following can be noted:

\- Compared against AMR-WB/EVS AMR-WB-IO modes, the subjective quality
performance gap with EVS-SWB Channel Aware mode increases from about 0.3
DMOS to 0.75 DMOS. For example, EVS SWB CA 13.2 kbps at 9% FER is NWT
than that of AMR-WB (or EVS-IO) at 23.85 kbps at 3% FER.

Based on the EVS Selection experiment results, e.g. Figure 10.2 in TR
26.952, the following can be noted.

\- the performance of EVS WB at 6% FER (solid red line) is similar to
that of the AMR-WB/G.718IO at 3% FER (dotted blue line). Note that
AMR-WB/G.718IO incorporates enhanced decoder-side packet loss
concealment techniques that are not specified in AMR-WB codec.

Based on the EVS Selection experiment results, e.g. Figure 10.12 in TR
26.952, the following can be noted.

\- the performance of EVS AMR-WB IO at a given FER is similar to that of
AMR-WB/G.718IO at the same FER.

Table 5.1: Example Maximum End-to-end Packet Loss Rate (PLR) per link
for AMR-WB, EVS

  ------------------------------- ---------------------- -------------------------------------
  Codec                           Robustness Parameter   Maximum End-to-end Packet Loss Rate
  AMR-WB                          Normal                 1.5%
  AMR-WB/G718 IO, EVS AMR-WB IO   Medium                 3%
  EVS WB, SWB                     High                   6%
  EVS WB, SWB Channel Aware       Extreme High           9%
  ------------------------------- ---------------------- -------------------------------------

##### 5.2.1.1.3 Max PLR recommendation with Application Layer Redundancy

Application layer redundancy can work in conjunction with any of the
aforementioned codec modes in Table 5.1, and may in general improve the
Max. PLR operating points.

Unlike the EVS channel aware (partial redundancy) codec mode for which
there are test results (see TR 26.952) that may be used to derive the
Maximum PLR operating points, the derivation of the Max. PLR operating
points with Application Layer Redundancy may depend on many factors,
e.g.:

\- Different redundancy levels (100% or 200% or 300%).

\- Rate and intervals at which the packets are repeated and transmitted.

\- Underlying changes to the codec audio bandwidth (e.g. super-wideband
to wideband and drop in intrinsic quality) if the codec bitrate is
reduced to allow for packet repetitions.

Conducting subjective tests to measure the performance of application
layer redundancy is one way to obtain some guidance. However, repeating
the same level of subjective testing rigor to study the eVoLP
performance with all potential application layer redundancy modes is
simply too complex. Therefore, it is more practical to limit the number
of application layer redundancy modes, e.g. use only 100% redundancy
modes.

In general, use of application layer redundancy (i.e. packet
repetitions) may have benefits to improve error performance, but to
assess what is the Max. PLR operating point for improving eVoLP
performance is challenging, especially to provide analytical guidance on
top of the case when application layer redundancy is not used. For
example, if one is operating at EVS 24.4 kbps SWB and encountered an FER
of 10%, use of application layer redundancy with 2x9.6 kbps (to stay
within the same data rate) may improve the effective loss rate to about
1%. However, the drop in the intrinsic quality of the EVS codec at 9.6
kbps relative to that of at 24.4 kbps needs to be accounted for when
setting the Max. PLR operating point. Similarly, if one is operating at
EVS 13.2 kbps SWB, and encounters an FER of 10%, use of application
layer redundancy with 2x5.9 kbps (to stay within the same data rate) may
improve the effective loss rate to about 1%, with the cost that SWB
coding is not supported at 5.9 kbps.

Table 5.2: Example Max. End-to-end Packet Loss Rate (PLR) with
application layer redundancy for EVS codec

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Codec                | Robustness Parameter | Maximum End-to-end   |
|                      |                      | Packet Loss Rate     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| No application layer | \-                   | X %                  |
| redundancy,          |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| EVS (@ bitrate of R  |                      |                      |
| kbps)                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| With 100%            | \-                   | (X+2)% to (X+5) %    |
| application layer    |                      |                      |
| redundancy,          |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| EVS (@ bitrate of 2R |                      |                      |
| kbps), Offset=2.     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Note: The relationship to path loss when operating at twice the bit rate
is not accounted in the Max. PLR value in Table 5.2.

Table 5.2 provides example Maximum PLR operating points with and without
application layer redundancy applicable to EVS codec based on informal
objective and subjective results in Annex A. The example Max. PLR values
in Table 5.2 for EVS includes 100% application layer redundancy with
offset 2, resulting in (2xbitrate). In particular, from Figure A.1 and
Figure, A.2, it can be noted that similar MOS-LQO values are observed
for the following, 1) EVS \@2x7.2 kbps at 6% FER and EVS \@13.2 kbps at
4% FER, 2) EVS 2x13.2 kbps at 8% FER and EVS 13.2 kbps at 3% FER, and 3)
EVS 2x9.6 kbps at 6% FER and EVS 24.4 kbps at 3% FER. With the use of
application layer redundancy, it is not straightforward to set the Max.
PLR parameter as it will depend highly on the configuration and the
bitrates used. To this extent, in Table 5.2, a range of possible Max.
PLR improvements that can be feasible, e.g. 2-5% are suggested. That is
if the Max. end-to-end packet loss rate that a terminal can handle is X%
when there is no application layer redundancy (e.g. as per Table 5.1),
then with the application layer redundancy the Max. PLR end-to-end
packet loss rate that a terminal can similarly handle may increase to
the range of (X+2)% to (X+5)%. It is not straightforward to obtain a
reliable single Max. PLR value for various configurations of application
layer redundancy; and it is up to the service provider to evaluate the
network configuration and select a suitable Max. PLR value when using
application layer redundancy for eVoLP. Another aspect to take into
consideration is that even though it may be possible that the codec (or
codec configurations) can handle maximum end-to-end packet loss rate in
the range of e.g. 12%, the radio link may be quite unstable at those
channel conditions.

The use of application layer redundancy introduces the following
considerations:

1\) Increasing the aggregate bit rate can:

\- further reduce coverage, which is the opposite to the objective of
the eVoLP feature. This was not simulated in the study.

\- increase the packet loss rate provided by the RAN as it is supporting
a higher bit rate. This was not simulated in the study.

2\) Keeping the aggregate bit rate the same by reducing the codec bit
rate (e.g. 13.2 -\> 2 x 7.2) can reduce the voice quality as a lower
rate codec is used. This was not taken into account in the study.

3\) Reserving QoS resources for a data rate more than required by the
highest codec mode negotiated to support application layer redundancy
may result in a waste of network resources if the application layer
redundancy is never used. This consideration can limit the number of
codec modes with which application-layer redundancy can be used. For
example, a configuration may not reserve more QoS than is required by
the highest codec mode negotiated. When application layer redundancy is
used in such configuration it can only be used with lower rate codec
modes.

5.3 Conclusion
--------------

For eVoLP SRVCC threshold selection, it is recommended to use the
example Max. PLR operating points as per clauses 5.2.1.1.1 and clauses
5.2.1.1.2.

6 Codec Mode Adaptation Procedures
==================================

6.1 Description
---------------

6.2 Potential Solutions
-----------------------

### 6.2.1 Adaptation to Packet Loss

The main clause dealing with adaptation in TS 26.114 is clause 10 and
example adaptation algorithms for speech are provided in Annex C of TS
26.114. There are no mandatory adaptation mechanisms, however clause 10
provides some high-level guidelines (e.g. conservative use of
adaptation). TS 26.114 currently defines two methods to signal
adaptation requests for speech:

\- RTP CMR in the codec payload

\- RTCP-APP

Note that additional mechanisms are available (e.g. ANBR for bitrate
adaptation and ECN-triggered adaptation). RTCP-APP is recommended for
speech adaptation defined in clause 10.2.1 of TS 26.114 (including
application-layer redundancy). However, it is also specified that AVPF
will be offered when offering to use RTCP-APP signalling.

The procedures for client adaptation to packet loss can be introduced in
Annex C of TS 26.114, similar to how the procedures for rate adaptation
are specified. This would be specified as follows:

In 3GPP TS 26.114 \[3\]:

##### ***\"C.1.3.6 Adaptation to Packet Loss*** {#c.1.3.6-adaptation-to-packet-loss .H6}

*When the MTSI client detects packet losses higher than tolerable by the
current codec mode and application layer redundancy in use (if any),
then the MTSI client should use the CMR or RTCP-APP messages to request
a more robust codec mode or increased application layer redundancy from
the media sender.\"*

6.3 Conclusion
--------------

It is recommended to add the procedures to client adaptation to packet
loss in TS 26.114 as per clause 6.2.1.

7 Adaptation Capability Indication
==================================

7.1 Description
---------------

Void.

7.2 Potential Solutions
-----------------------

### 7.2.1 SDP Indication

### 7.2.1 SDP Indication

A new SDP attribute (e.g. \"PLR\_adapt\") can be defined to indicate
that the MTSI client receiver supports adaptation to the most robust
codec mode, i.e. that the UE will request the sender to change its
encoder to a more robust mode when it detects packet losses.

The \"PLR\_adapt\" SDP attribute is necessary so that the UEs and
network can confirm that the MTSI clients will be able to adapt to the
most robust codec mode negotiated for the session. When the attribute is
sent by an MTSI client in SDP (Offer or Answer) this indicates that when
the MTSI client detects high packet loss in the received media stream,
the MTSI client will request that the media sender use a more robust
codec mode among those negotiated.

During the design of the Coverage and Handoff Enhancements for
Multimedia (CHEM) feature it was determined that some network operators
may want to disable the MTSI client's ability to perform robustness
adaptation (e.g., network wants to guarantee that UEs from different
vendors do not change codec modes at different PLR values before
performing SRVCC). To support this, the \"PLR\_adapt\" SDP attribute was
modified from being a capability indication to become an attribute for
negotiating use of the CHEM feature, i.e., the MTSI client shall only
perform robustness adaptation when it receives the "PLR\_adapt"
attribute from the other MTSI client. To disable the feature the network
could remove the SDP attribute during SDP negotiation.

For the network-based solution, the PCRF can use the presence of the
\"PLR\_adapt\" attribute in SDP to determine what Max PLR to indicate to
its eNB as follows:

a\) If the PCRF detects the \"PLR\_adapt\" attribute in both the SDP
offer and answer, but does not detect the "ALR" parameter, then the PCRF
can indicate,

a\) the Max PLR for the **most robust** codec mode that does not use
application layer redundancy negotiated in the downlink direction to the
eNB for its downlink. Otherwise, if the \"PLR\_adapt\" attribute is not
detected, the PCRF indicates the Max PLR for the **least robust** codec
mode negotiated in the downlink direction to the eNB for its downlink

b\) the Max PLR for the **most robust** codec mode that does not use
application layer redundancy negotiated in the uplink direction to the
eNB for its uplink. Otherwise, if the \"PLR\_adapt\" attribute is not
detected, the PCRF indicates the Max PLR for the **least robust** codec
mode negotiated in the uplink direction to the eNB for its uplink

b\) If the PCRF detects the \"PLR\_adapt\" attribute in both the SDP
offer and answer, and also detects the "ALR" parameter, then the PCRF
can indicate,

a\) the Max PLR for the **most robust** codec mode (including those that
rely on application layer redundancy) negotiated in the downlink
direction to the eNB for its downlink. Otherwise, if the \"PLR\_adapt\"
attribute is not detected, the PCRF indicates the Max PLR for the
**least robust** codec mode negotiated in the downlink direction to the
eNB for its downlink

b\) the Max PLR for the **most robust** codec mode (including those that
rely on application layer redundancy) negotiated in the uplink direction
to the eNB for its uplink. Otherwise, if the \"PLR\_adapt\" attribute is
not detected, the PCRF indicates the Max PLR for the **least robust**
codec mode negotiated in the uplink direction to the eNB for its uplink

Figure 7.1: void

Figure 7.2: void

The PLR\_adapt SDP attribute applies to the entire media line, i.e.,
either all of the codecs support robustness adaptation or none do.

### 7.2.2 Application Layer Redundancy Adaptation Request

#### 7.2.2.1 General

Application layer redundancy is a codec-agnostic feature and not a codec
mode as such. For example, the application layer redundancy may be used
in conjunction with the current codecs AMR or AMR-WB or EVS AMR-WB IO or
EVS with or without Channel aware. The use of application layer
redundancy requires use of the RTCP-APP redundancy request message as
specified in clause 10.2.1.3, TS 26.114 \[3\]. However, other signalling
options than RTCP-APP are studied in another clause.

Further, as per GSMA RiLTE specification IR 92 v11.0, it was specified
that \"RTCP-APP must not be used for Codec Mode Requests (CMR) by the UE
and the entities in the IMS core network that terminate the user
plane\", and AVPF will not be used. The use of RTCP-APP is therefore
restricted for use of requesting application layer redundancy.

GSMA IR.92 specifies that \"the RTP AVP profile must be used by the
client and IMS network. Besides, entities must be able to ignore
SDPCapNeg attributes and indicate the use of the RTP AVP profile when
clients support both AVP and AVPF\". With this minimum profile of MTSI,
it is therefore not possible to use RTCP-APP with the AVPF profile which
could affect performance of media robustness adaptation due to
signalling latency. The primary uses of RTCP are voice quality
monitoring and keep-alive functionality.

#### 7.2.2.2 Signal method 1: RTCP-APP

RTCP-APP signalling is defined in TS 26.114 \[3\], clause 10. This
method does not seem applicable with the current minimum profile defined
in GSMA IR.92 \[11\].

#### 7.2.2.3 Signal method 2: RTP CMR using the Reserved CMR codepoints

RTP CMR for AMR and AMR-WB is specified in IETF RFC 4867 \[12\]. The
4-bit CMR code space is not fully used and allows to signal bit rate
adaption requests for the 8 and 9 modes of AMR and AMR-WB, together with
the NO\_REQ code. Some CMR code points are left for future use.

RTP CMR for EVS is specified in Annex A of TS 26.445. In Compact mode,
there is only a 3-bit CMR for EVS AMR-WB IO to signal 7 out 9 modes and
a \'none\' code equivalent to \'NO\_REQ\'. A CMR byte is defined for
Header-full mode, with code points for operation mode / bit rate / coded
bandwidth adaptations (EVS-NB, -WB, -SWB, and -FB and AMR-WB IO),
together with specific requests for EVS CAM at different offsets and FEC
indicators. There is also a specific code point for NO\_REQ in the CMR
byte. The code space in the CMR byte is sparse with many entries
indicated as \'Not used\' and some entries indicated as \'reserved\'.

The existing code points for RTP CMR in AMR and AMR-WB can only be used
for bit rate adaptation while RTP CMR for EVS is able to signal
adaptation requests in terms of operation mode / bit rate / coded
bandwidth / CAM mode adaptation. To be able to signal other types of
requests, such as application-layer redundancy or frame aggregation, one
has to rely on RTCP-APP, however this is not allowed in IR.92.

Assuming there is a specific new SDP attribute indicating \'eVoLP
capability\' in the terminal for interoperability with legacy terminals
(e.g. a media level attribute below the \'m=audio\' line in SDP), one
may reuse \'reserved\' CMR codepoints for AMR, AMR-WB and EVS.

![](media/image5.png){width="4.4743055555555555in"
height="2.0770833333333334in"}

Figure 7.3: Packet structure with extended CMR (ext. CMR) by reusing
reserved code points

The use of CMR to request for application layer redundancy is not
possible in case of AMR-WB and EVS AMR-WB IO as there are no available
points as per Table A.3 in TS 26.445 \[4\]. In case of EVS primary
modes, repurposing the 15 Reserved Fields is highly risky given that:

\- It is not clear if all the current implementations strictly ignore
the Reserved Fields or reset them.

\- Also, as per clause A.2.2.1.1 in TS 26.445, when a CMR is received
requesting a bit rate and/or audio bandwidth that does not comply with
the negotiated media parameters, it will be ignored. Any change to the
TS 26.445 specification now would introduce backwards compatibility
issues with legacy devices. One may have to rely on additional eVoLP
related SDP attributes and/or parameters (e.g. eVoLP \'PLR\_adapt\'
attribute and optional 'ALR' attribute) to limit the backward interop
issues.

Some indicative example of code point reuse for AMR, AMR-WB and EVS are
provided in Tables 7.1, 7.2, 7.3.

Table 7.1: Reusing \'reserved\' code points for AMR.

  ---------- ------------------------------------------
  CMR code   Application layer redundancy AMR request
  9          RED 2x4.75
  10         RED 2x5.15
  11         RED 2x5.9
  12         Not used
  13         Not used
  14         Not used
  ---------- ------------------------------------------

Table 7.2: Reusing \'reserved\' code points for AMR-WB

  ---------- ---------------------------------------------
  CMR code   Application layer redundancy AMR-WB request
  9          RED 2x6.6
  10         RED 2x8.85
  11         RED 2x12.65
  12         Not used
  13         Not used
  14         Not used
  ---------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 7.3: Example 1: Reusing \'reserved\' code points for EVS.

  ---------- ------------------------------------------
  CMR code   Application layer redundancy EVS request
  111 0000   RED 2x7.2-NB
  111 0001   RED 2x8-NB
  111 0010   RED 2x9.6-NB
  111 0011   RED 2x13.2-NB
  111 0100   RED 2x7.2-WB
  111 0101   RED 2x8-WB
  111 0110   RED 2x9.6-WB
  111 0111   RED 2x13.2-WB
  111 1000   RED 2x13.2 CAM WB
  111 1001   RED 2x13.2 CAM SWB
  111 1010   RED 2x9.6-SWB
  111 1011   RED 2x13.2-SWB
  111 1100   RED 2x6.6-IO
  111 1101   RED 2x8.85-IO
  111 1110   RED 2x12.65-IO
  ---------- ------------------------------------------

#### 7.2.2.4 Signal method 3: Padding

Assuming there is a specific new SDP attribute indicating \'eVoLP
capability\' in the terminal for interoperability with legacy terminals
(e.g. a media level attribute below the \'m=audio\' line in SDP),
padding can be inserted at the end of the payload. The padding bit (P)
in the RTP header may be set to 1, however this bit may also be kept to
0 to avoid impact on header compression.

Padding should be inserted following RFC 3550, where the last octet
indicates the number of inserted bytes. The signalled request may be
format as in RTCP-APP or as in extended CMR. In the latter case, care
should be taken to avoid conflicts with the possible CMR in the payload
header.

![](media/image6.png){width="4.347916666666666in" height="2.01875in"}

Figure 7.4: Packet structure with extended request with padding bytes

This solution is not feasible, because RTP-level padding is mandated to
be set to 0 \[13\].

#### 7.2.2.5 Signal method 4: RTP header extension

Assuming there is a specific new SDP attribute indicating \'eVoLP
capability\' in the terminal for interoperability with legacy terminals
(e.g. a media level attribute below the \'m=audio\' line in SDP), this
capability attribute can be formatted according to RFC 8285 with the
\"rtp-hdrext\" parameter. The extension bit (X) in the RTP header will
be set to 1.

The signalled request may be format as in RTCP-APP or as in extended
CMR. In the latter case, care should be taken to avoid conflicts with
the possible CMR in the payload header.

![](media/image7.png){width="4.347916666666666in" height="2.01875in"}

Figure 7.5: Packet structure with header extension

#### 7.2.2.6 Conclusions on Application Layer Redundancy

With the GSMA IR.92 restrictions against using the AVPF RTP profile for
speech, the solution chosen for supporting the request of application
layer redundancy for speech robustness was use of the reserved RTP CMR
codepoints as described in clause 7.2.2.3.

As there were no identified commercial deployments of application layer
redundancy it was determined that its support not be mandated for the
Coverage and Handoff Enhancements for Multimedia (CHEM) feature
specified in 3GPP TS 26.114 \[3\]. Use of application layer redundancy
has to be explicitly negotiated using an optional SDP 'ALR' parameter of
the PLR\_adapt SDP attribute. The use of the RTP CMR codepoints is
restricted to only sessions where both MTSI clients indicate support via
the 'ALR' SDP attribute, thus avoiding backwards compatibility issues
with legacy terminals and enabling use of the reserved code points for
future features that do not rely or co-exist with application layer
redundancy.

### 7.2.3 Considerations on the impact of packet loss on adaptation requests

When RTP CMR is used, the CMR field is carried in RTP packets, which are
typically over UDP (in unacknowledged RLC mode in LTE), so in case of
packet loss the CMR field might be lost. Some possible guidelines are
provided below to ensure proper behavior in impaired conditions,
assuming the existing RTP CMR method is used to application layer
redundancy adaptation requests:

\- For AMR and AMR-WB, the CMR field is always present. Assuming an
updated adaptation request has been sent in a given CMR (different from
\'NO\_REQ\'), the code point corresponding to the targeted operation
should be used and repeated until the next update of the request,
instead of the \'CMR15\' code point. Alternatively, one may repeat a
request several times until the request is executed or up to a given
timeout.

\- For EVS, assuming the default packetization mode is used, sending CMR
may require temporarily switching from compact to header-full (at the
expense of payload size). If the terminal, which has sent an adaptation
request by CMR, has not received any RTP packets matching the request
after a given timeout (e.g. 500 ms), it may resend a new CMR
(potentially with an updated value). There may be other approaches, for
instance, the terminal may just repeat the latest updated adaptation
request, however this may require using header-full mode most of the
time, especially if the adaptation frequency is high or if the target is
to maximize the robustness of CMR transport. Here, it is important to
recall that there is some potential padding penalty used for size
collision avoidance of header-full mode, which may have an impact on
efficiency.

7.3 Conclusion
--------------

It is recommended to define a new SDP parameter (e.g. \"PLR\_adapt\") to
indicate that the MTSI client receiver supports adaptation to the most
robust codec mode. For the network-based eVoLP solution, the PCRF can
use the presence of this parameter in SDP to determine the Max. PLR to
indicate to its eNB as per clause 7.2.1.

8 Impact of JBM and PLC on Handover Thresholds
==============================================

8.1 Description
---------------

In addition to the negotiated codecs and codec modes, the end-to-end
quality and robustness of the VoLTE connection also depends on the UE
capabilities including, for example, jitter buffer management (JBM) and
packet loss concealment (PLC). In the meantime, the MaxPLR parameter
derived by the PCRF (i.e. in the network-based architecture in clause
4.2.1) or UE (i.e. in the UE-based architecture in clause 4.2.2) and
signaled to the eNB does not capture the impact of such UE capabilities.
As such, further refinements on the MaxPLR could be considered on a per
UE basis depending on the capabilities of the UE.

One of the challenges in setting the handover thresholds is to ensure
that the end-to-end error rate across the transport path from the media
sender to a media receiver does not exceed the maximum packet loss that
the codec, the PLC implementation, and the JBM implementation in the
receiving UE can handle. In Figure 8.1, assuming that the backhaul
introduces negligible error requires that in the transmission direction
from UE B to UE A, that:

eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR + eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR \<= max PLR codec and (PLC + JBM in UE
A)

Similarly, in the other direction of transmitting media from UE A to UE
B the following requirement holds:

eNB\_A\_UL\_PLR + eNB\_B\_DL\_PLR \<= max PLR codec and (PLC + JBM in UE
B)

Figure 8.1: UL and DL packet loss rate depiction

The problem is how to provide the eNB information about the codec, PLC,
and JBM in use so that it can set appropriate handover thresholds for
the uplink and downlink.

8.2 Potential Solutions
-----------------------

### 8.2.1 General

Since the PLC and JBM implementation and performance are known only to
the terminal receiving media, this information has to be signaled by the
terminal to the network. In this context, the UE may consider its JBM
and/or PLC capabilities to derive a recommended *maximum end-to-end
packet loss rate* (max\_e2e\_PLR) that the terminal can tolerate for a
given codec/mode when using its JBM and PLC implementation, and signal
this parameter, or some indication derived from it, to the network. The
robustness parameter values used in the eNB may then use, or be refined
based on, this recommendation. A UE with advanced JBM and PLC
capabilities may determine a max\_e2e\_PLR value that is higher than the
MaxPLR corresponding to the most robust codec configuration. This means
that the PLC and JBM capabilities of the UE may be delivering further
robustness on top of that delivered by the most robust codec
configuration. If the eNB gets such an indication of additional
robustness from the UE, it may further delay the SRVCC handover decision
even when the MaxPLR value (based on the most robust codec
configuration) is exceeded, leading to more optimized SRVCC handovers.

Furthermore, since there are typically two radio links in the end-to-end
path from the sending terminal to the receiving terminal, the
information has to ultimately be shared with the two eNBs in the
transport path to determine how to set their SRVCC handover thresholds
to achieve the appropriate packet\_loss\_rate targets.

During SDP codec negotiation, the terminals may also exchange
information about their JBM and packet loss concealment capabilities. As
such, SDP may carry max\_e2e\_PLR information.

The value of this parameter can be set in the UE based on the UE
vendor\'s characterization of the terminal\'s performance and it is
exchanged with the other terminal via a new SDP parameter. For example,
UE A would send the max PLR that it can receive (max\_e2e\_PLR\_A) for a
particular codec mode to UE B in the SDP offer, while UE B would send
max PLR it can receiver (max\_e2e\_PLR\_B) for a particular codec mode
to UE A in the SDP answer.

### 8.2.2 UE-requested UL and DL PLR

#### 8.2.2.1 General

In the following set of solutions, following the exchange of the
required max\_e2e\_PLR in each transmission direction, the terminals
determine what maximum PLR to request of each local eNB for the uplink
and downlink (Figure 8.2). These requests for target PLRs on the UL and
DL are sent directly from the UE to eNB using new RAN2 messages.

Figure 8.2: UE-requested UL PLR and DL PLR

How the UEs can determine the UL PLR and DL PLR to request of each eNB
is described in the following clauses. One distinction to observe among
the potential solutions is whether (i) the UL PLR and DL PLR are set
statically at the session level and kept the same regardless of the
local RAN conditions as in clauses 8.2.2.2 and 8.2.2.3, or (ii) the UL
PLR and DL PLR are dynamically allocated according to the local RAN
conditions on both ends of the link, as in clause 8.2.2.4.

#### 8.2.2.2 Simple Ratio

In this approach the terminals are specified, pre-configured, or
dynamically configured (e.g. via OMA-DM) to divide the max\_e2e\_PLR
across the uplink and downlink according to an agreed ratio.

For example if the UL PLR: DL PLR ratio = R then:

\- UE A asks its eNB to support on its uplink, UL\_PLR\_A =
(max\_e2e\_PLR\_B) \[R /(R+1)\]

\- UE A asks its eNB to support on its downlink, DL\_PLR\_A =
(max\_e2e\_PLR\_A) \[1 /(R+1)\]

\- UE B asks its eNB to support on its uplink, UL\_PLR\_B =
(max\_e2e\_PLR\_A) \[R /(R+1)\]

\- UE B asks its eNB to support on its downlink, DL\_PLR\_B =
(max\_e2e\_PLR\_B) \[1 /(R+1)\]

#### 8.2.2.3 SDP-Negotiated

During the SDP negotiation terminals explicitly negotiate how to
distribute the max\_e2e\_PLR, e.g. allow more errors to occur on the
uplink since LTE networks are uplink-coverage limited. This is performed
as follows:

For each device, the desired UL PLR and DL PLR for its local links is
pre-configured or dynamically configured via OMA-DM.

\- UE A (the offerer) in its SDP offer indicates max\_e2e\_PLR (i.e.
direction from UE B to UE A) and both its uplink (UE A to UE B) &
downlink (UE B to UE A) PLRs denoted by max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off,
UL\_PLR\_Off, DL\_PLR\_Off, respectively.

\- UE B (the answerer) can then either accept the requested
uplink/downlink PLR or modify them. For example, if the requested uplink
(UE A to UE B) PLR is more than UE B can handle, it may reduce it to fit
within its max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans (UE A to UE B) limit.

\- When UE B receives the SDP offer, it has all the information (i.e. UE
A\'s PLR configuration and its own local configuration - UE B\'s
max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans, its uplink (UE B to UE A) and its downlink (UE A to
UE B)) to either accept the offer or modify what was offered. If UE B
modifies what was offered by UE A and includes this in the SDP answer,
UE A can either accept the payload type or reject it.

\- UE B responds with its triad set. Note that if one always assumes
that uplink + downlink add up to total max\_e2e\_PLR, then only UE B\'s
max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans is needed. But to support scenarios where the network
may not want to exhaust the entire PLR budget, UE B should respond with
its own triad set as well. 

To support the above procedures the following SDP attributes would be
defined:

\- Triad for the offerer: max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off, UL\_PLR\_Off,
DL\_PLR\_Off.

\- Triad for the answerer: max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans, UL\_PLR\_Ans,
DL\_PLR\_Ans.

\- Where all PLRs are expressed in %.

\- The following conditions should be met to provide acceptable
performance:

\- UL\_PLR\_Off + DL\_PLR\_Ans will be \<= max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans

\- UL\_PLR\_Ans + DL\_PLR\_Off will be \<= max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off

The following scenarios illustrate how these SDP parameters could be
used.

**Example 1**

\- Answerer UE configuration agrees with SDP offer therefore answerer
does not modify the SDP attributes inserted by the offerer.

\- Entire e2e PLR budget is utilized.

Table 8.1: SDP Offer-Answer when answerer agrees with offerer and entire
e2e PLR budget utilized

  -------------------- -------------------- -------------------- -----------
  SDP Offer            Value (%)            SDP Answer           Value (%)
  max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off   5                    max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off   5
  UL\_PLR\_Off         7                    UL\_PLR\_Off         7
  DL\_PLR\_Off         1                    DL\_PLR\_Off         1
                       max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans   9                    
                       UL\_PLR\_Ans         4                    
                       DL\_PLR\_Ans         2                    
  -------------------- -------------------- -------------------- -----------

**Example 2**

\- Answerer UE configuration agrees with SDP offer therefore answerer
does not modify the SDP attributes inserted by the offerer.

\- Entire e2e PLR budget is not utilized.

Table 8.2: SDP Offer-Answer when answerer agrees with offerer and\
entire e2e PLR budget is not utilized

  -------------------- -------------------- -------------------- -----------
  SDP Offer            Value (%)            SDP Answer           Value (%)
  max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off   10                   max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off   10
  UL\_PLR\_Off         5                    UL\_PLR\_Off         5
  DL\_PLR\_Off         1                    DL\_PLR\_Off         1
                       max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans   9                    
                       UL\_PLR\_Ans         4                    
                       DL\_PLR\_Ans         2                    
  -------------------- -------------------- -------------------- -----------

**Example 3**

\- Answerer\'s PLR configuration conflicts with offerer\'s PLR
configuration:

\- Answerer UE\'s PLR configuration: max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans=7,
UL\_PLR\_Ans=4, DL\_PLR\_Ans=2.

\- Since this conflicts with offer, the answerer UE modifies the PLR
values from the offer.

\- Entire e2e PLR budget for answerer is utilized. Offerer\'s maximum
e2e PLR budget is not fully utilized.

Table 8.3: SDP Offer-Answer when answerer disagrees with offerer and\
entire e2e PLR budget is utilized

  -------------------- -------------------- -------------------- -----------
  SDP Offer            Value (%)            SDP Answer           Value (%)
  max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off   10                   max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off   10
  UL\_PLR\_Off         7                    UL\_PLR\_Off         5
  DL\_PLR\_Off         1                    DL\_PLR\_Off         1
                       max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans   7                    
                       UL\_PLR\_Ans         4                    
                       DL\_PLR\_Ans         2                    
  -------------------- -------------------- -------------------- -----------

Answerer modifies UL\_PLR\_Off from 7 to 5 to fit within its maximum
max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans. Upon receiving the above SDP answer, the offerer
could either accept or reject the payload type associated with the
answer.

#### 8.2.2.4 Dynamic Allocation of UL PLR and DL PLR

The potential solutions documented in clauses 8.2.2.2 and 8.2.2.3 rely
on fixed allocation of UL PLR and DL PLR across the eNBs. However, this
may not always provide the most optimal results in adjusting the SRVCC
handover thresholds. e.g. when one of the eNBs enjoys very good radio
conditions it is unable to dynamically raise the packet loss rates that
can be tolerated at the far-end eNB which would allow the far-end eNB to
delay the SRVCC handover for the negotiated codec configurations. A more
dynamic allocation policy on UL PLR and DL PLR that considers the local
RAN conditions on both ends of the link may therefore allow realizing
further optimizations on the SRVCC handover thresholds.

Considering Figure 8.1, UE\_A can determine the maximum PLR it can
tolerate based on its PLC and JBM implementation, i.e. max\_e2e\_PLR\_A,
and then decide how this should be distributed between eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR
and eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR. In particular, UE A can decide on the value of
eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR based on the evaluation of the local downlink radio
conditions between UE A and eNB A, and then determine eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR by
subtracting eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR from the maximum end-to-end PLR at UE A
(max\_e2e\_PLR). While UE A can signal eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR to its eNB A
locally over the RAN interface (e.g. via RRC signaling), it cannot
signal eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR to eNB B. UE-B may signal eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR to eNB
B, but it does not know eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR value unless told by UE-A. To
achieve the latter, UE A can use RTCP feedback or RTP header extension
signaling to convey a recommended eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR to UE B. UE B can then
signal this information to eNB B locally over its RAN interface. Based
on the evaluation of the local uplink radio conditions between UE B and
eNB B, UE B may further update eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR value and send this
information to UE A via the use of RTCP feedback or RTP header extension
messages. As such, both the MTSI receiver and MTSI sender have means to
exchange UL PLR information, in order to dynamically optimize the
allocation of DL PLR and UL PLR and this leads to the most optimal
selection of the SRVCC handover thresholds on both ends of the link.

The potential advantage of this approach is the ability to dynamically
allocate eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR and eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR depending on the local RAN
conditions. For instance, if UE A observes that it enjoys good radio
conditions to eNB A that would allow communication using the most robust
codec mode with nearly negligible PLR, it may set eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR to a
value close to max\_e2e\_PLR\_A, and essentially allocate the entire
max\_e2e\_PLR\_A for use over the eNB B\'s uplink toward realizing the
best possible SRVCC handover threshold for eNB B in the uplink. Later
on, if the local RAN conditions for UE A change, UE A may send another
RTCP feedback or RTP header extension message to UE B to adjust the
allocation of max\_e2e\_PLR\_A across eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR and
eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR.

Another possible dynamic PLR allocation approach may be when UE A
determines the maximum PLR it can tolerate based on its PLC and JBM
implementation and then UE B learns this maximum PLR value during the
SDP negotiations. As such, UE\_B (as the media sender) may then decide
how max\_e2e\_PLR\_A should be distributed between eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR and
eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR. In particular, UE B can decide on the value of
eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR based on the evaluation of the local uplink radio
conditions between UE B and eNB B, and then determine eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR by
subtracting eNB\_B\_UL\_PLR from the maximum end-to-end PLR (MaxPLR at
UE A, i.e. max\_e2e\_PLR\_A). Again, RTCP feedback or RTP header
extension methods may be used in order to convey the information on
eNB\_A\_DL\_PLR from UE B to UE A. UE A can then signal this information
to eNB A locally over its RAN interface.

It should be noted that the use of the dynamic PLR allocation approach
described in this clause is not limited to situations where the UEs
determine the maximum PLR they can tolerate based on their PLC and JBM
implementations. It is also possible that the maximum end-to-end PLRs
may be decided by the network (i.e. in the PCRF) as per the
network-based architecture described in clause 4.2.1 and signalled to
the UEs, e.g. via max\_e2e\_PLR signalling using the SDP. Following
this, the UEs may determine and exchange DL PLR and UL PLR
recommendations based on the monitoring of their local RAN conditions,
leading to a dynamic allocation of DL PLR and UL PLR.

To enable the dynamic allocation of UL PLR and DL PLR as described
above, the following RTCP feedback message and RTP header extension
signaling frameworks can be considered:

1\) A new RTCP feedback (FB) message type to carry uplink packet loss
ratio (UL PLR) information during the RTP streaming of media (signaled
from the MTSI receiver to the MTSI sender).

2\) A new SDP parameter on the RTCP-based ability to signal UL PLR
information during the IMS/SIP based capability negotiations.

3\) A new RTP header extension type to signal for UL PLR information
during the RTP streaming of media (signalled from the MTSI sender to the
MTSI receiver).

4\) A new SDP parameter on the RTP-based ability to signal UL PLR
information during the IMS/SIP based capability negotiations.

RTCP feedback messages signalled from the MTSI receiver to the MTSI
sender may also carry UL PLR information for the reverse link. In this
case, the use of RTP header extension messages may not be necessary.

RTP header extension messages signalled from the MTSI sender to the MTSI
receiver may also carry UL PLR information for the reverse link. In this
case, the use of RTCP feedback messages may not be necessary.

Instead of the UL PLR information, it is also possible that the ratio
between UL PLR and DL PLR may be carried in the above messages.

The signalling of UL PLR information may use RTCP feedback messages as
specified in IETF RFC 4585 \[6\]. As such, the RTCP feedback message is
sent from the MTSI receiver to the MTSI sender to convey to the sender
about the UL PLR information. The recipient of the RTCP feedback message
may then convey this information to its eNB over the RAN interface, e.g.
by using RRC signalling.

The RTCP feedback message may be identified by PT (payload type) = PSFB
(206) which refers to payload-specific feedback message. FMT (feedback
message type) may be set to the value \'Y\' for UL PLR information. The
RTCP feedback method may involve signalling of UL PLR information in
both of the immediate feedback and early RTCP modes.

The FCI (feedback control information) format can be as follows. The FCI
may contain exactly one instance of the UL PLR information, composed of
the following parameters:

\- UL PLR value ULPLR (16 bits)

It should be noted that this FCI format is for illustration purposes,
and other formats can also be defined to convey UL PLR information.

The FCI for the proposed RTCP feedback message can follow the following
format:

0 1 2 3\
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\| ULPLR \| zero padding \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The high byte may be followed by the low byte, where the low byte holds
the least significant bits.

It is also possible that, rather than signalling UL PLR values, the
ratio between UL PLR and DL PLR values may be signalled in the RTCP
feedback message, e.g. in the following format:

\- Ratio of UL PLR and DL PLR values UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio -- specified in
(16 bits)

The FCI for the proposed RTCP feedback message can follow the following
format:

0 1 2 3\
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\| UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio \| zero padding \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

As yet another signalling option, it is also possible that the RTCP
feedback messages may solely be used to convey the DL and UL PLR
allocations for both sent and received RTP streams, e.g. with the
following format:

\- Ratio of UL PLR and DL PLR values UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio1 for the sent
RTP stream, e.g. from UE A to UE B-- specified in (16 bits).

\- Ratio of UL PLR and DL PLR values UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio2 for the
received RTP stream, e.g. from UE B to UE A -- specified in (16 bits).

The FCI for this RTCP feedback message can follow the following format:

0 1 2 3\
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\| UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio1 \| UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio2 \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

In this setting where RTCP feedback messages contain DL and UL PLR
allocations for both forward and reverse links, there would not be a
need to use the RTP header extension messages, in order to signal UL PLR
information from the MTSI sender to the MTSI receiver. This signalling
option however relies on the presence of a bi-directional link, i.e. it
would not work in case of sendonly or recvonly streams.

A 3GPP MTSI client (based on TS 26.114 \[3\]) supporting this RTCP
feedback message can offer such capability in the SDP for all media
streams containing video / audio. The offer can be made by including the
a=rtcp-fb attribute in conjunction with the following parameter:
3gpp-ul-plr. A wildcard payload type (\"\*\") may be used to indicate
that the RTCP feedback attribute applies to all payload types. Here is
an example usage of this attribute:

a=rtcp-fb:\* 3gpp-ul-plr

The ABNF for rtcp-fb-val corresponding to the feedback type
\"3gpp-ul-plr\"can be given as follows:

rtcp-fb-val =/ \"3gpp-ul-plr\"

As indicated above, the UL PLR information may also be signaled by the
MTSI sender to the MTSI receiver as part of the transmitted RTP stream
using RTP header extensions. An example format is as follows, where UL
PLR value ULPLR is specified in 16 bits:

0 1 2 3\
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\| ID \| len=7 \| ULPLR \| zero\_padding \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

It is also possible that, rather than signalling UL PLR values, the
ratio between UL PLR and DL PLR values may be signalled in the RTP
header extension message, e.g. in the following format:

\- Ratio of UL PLR and DL PLR values UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio -- specified in
(16 bits)

An example format is as follows, where UL DL\_PLR\_Ratio value
UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio is specified in 16 bits:

0 1 2 3\
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\| ID \| len=7 \| UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio \| zero\_padding \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

A 3GPP MTSI client (based on TS 26.114 \[3\]) supporting this RTP header
extension message can offer such capability in the SDP for all media
streams containing video / audio. This capability can be offered by
including the a=extmap attribute indicating a dedicated URN under the
relevant media line scope. The URN corresponding to the capability to
signal UL PLR information is: urn:3gpp:ul-plr. Here is an example usage
of this URN in the SDP:

a=extmap:7 urn:3gpp:ul:plr

The number 7 in the example may be replaced with any number in the range
1-14.

As yet another signalling option, it is also possible that the RTP
header extension method may solely be used to convey the DL and UL PLR
allocations for both sent and received RTP streams, e.g. with the
following format:

\- Ratio of UL PLR and DL PLR values UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio1 for the sent
RTP stream, e.g. from UE A to UE B-- specified in (12 bits).

\- Ratio of UL PLR and DL PLR values UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio2 for the
received RTP stream, e.g. from UE B to UE A -- specified in (12 bits).

> 0 1 2 3\
> 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
> +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
> \| ID \| len=7 \| UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio1 \| UL\_DL\_PLR\_Ratio2 \|\
> +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

In this setting where RTP header extension messages contain DL and UL
PLR allocations for both forward and reverse links, there would not be a
need to use the RTCP feedback messages, in order to signal UL PLR
information from the MTSI receiver to the MTSI sender. This signalling
option however relies on the presence of a bi-directional link, i.e. it
would not work in case of sendonly or recvonly streams.

Figure 8.3 below with signaling flows provides an example usage of the
above dynamic DL PLR and UL PLR allocation framework based on the use of
RTCP feedback signaling.

![](media/image10.wmf){width="6.684027777777778in"
height="2.9006944444444445in"}

Figure 8.3: Examplary signaling flow for dynamic DL PLR and UL PLR
allocation based on the use of RTCP feedback signaling

Step 1: UE-A and UE-B exchange SDP that includes information on (i)
max\_e2e\_PLR on UE-A and UE-B., (ii) RTCP-based ability to signal UL
PLR information as described above, (iii) RTP header extension based
capability to exchange UL PLR information as described above. Following
the SDP negotiation, it is possible that DL PLR and UL PLR values may be
statically configured and the respective SRVCC thresholds may be
determined, as per the UE-based and network-based approaches documented
in clauses 8.2.2.3 and 8.2.3.3 to 8.2.3.5, respectively. For instance,
from the perspective of UE B, this means, eNB\_B\_DL\_PLR and
eNB\_A\_UL\_PLR are also statically set.

Step 2: UE-A sends RTP media flow to UE-B.

Step 3: UE-B detects DL good radio conditions locally, e.g. UE-B
measures low BLER over the local radio link. Hence, UE-B concludes that
the local radio conditions will support the most robust codec mode with
negligibly small PLR, and the chances of SRVCC handover are quite small.

Step 4: On the contrary, UE-A detects UL poor radio conditions locally,
e.g. UE-A measures high BLER over the local radio link. Hence, UE-A
concludes that the local radio conditions may hardly support the most
robust codec mode, and there\'s a good chance that SRVCC handover will
need to be triggered.

Step 5: UE-B sends to UE A an RTCP feedback message including UL PLR
information, where eNB\_A\_UL\_PLR value is set to a value almost close
to max\_e2e\_PLR for UE B.

Step 6: UE A signals the new UL PLR value to eNB A. Then eNB updates its
SRVCC handover threshold based on the new UL PLR value, which is higher
than the statically set UL PLR value.

Step 7: SRVCC handover over the UL connection from UE A to eNB A is
delayed further due to the dynamically signalled UL PLR information from
UE B.

Next, we evaluate the potential performance enhancement based on the
dynamic allocation of DL PLR and UL PLR compared to a static PLR
allocation policy, considering the Example Maximum End-to-end Packet
Loss Rate (PLR) per link values for AMR-WB and EVS as given in Table
5.1.

In the examples below, we distinguish between poor coverage UEs and good
coverage UEs depending on their coverage conditions. Both kinds of UEs
will be encountered in a typical cellular deployment. A poor coverage UE
is typically located far from the eNB, e.g. at the cell edge, while a
good coverage UE is typically located close to the eNB, e.g. at cell
center. For a good coverage UE, it is considered that the most robust
codec mode will be supported with negligibly small PLR, while for a poor
coverage UE, PLR budget is critical and even the most robust codec mode
may not be supported below the DL/UL PLR values set at the corresponding
eNBs necessitating to trigger SRVCC handover.

Note: The dynamic PLR thresholds offered by the UEs are based on the PLR
statistics observed over time.

**Example 1: Sender in Poor Coverage (UL), Receiver in Good Coverage
(DL)**

\- EVS and EVS-CA are negotiated as codecs for the session. Thus, MaxPLR
for the end-to-end connection is 9%, as per Table 5.1.

\- Consider two static PLR allocation schemes for reference toward the
performance comparison. A 50-50 static PLR allocation policy would set
both DL PLR and UL PLR to 4.5%. A 70-30 static allocation policy would
set DL PLR to 2.7% and UL PLR to 6.3%.

\- Due to very poor coverage on the sender side, EVS-CA mode needs to be
used based on the MTSI client adaptation. In the meantime, due to the
good DL coverage conditions, the receiver can receive the voice packets
at a negligibly small PLR from its eNB. Thus, most of the end-to-end PLR
budget may be allocated to UL PLR. As such, UL PLR can be set to close
to 9% by the dynamic allocation policy. To make this allocation happen,
the poor coverage UE makes a request by signaling the UL PLR value close
to 9%, say 8.5% (or a corresponding UL/DL ratio value, say 20 or higher)
to the good coverage UE, and then the good coverage UE agrees to this
PLR allocation and signals back accordingly. It should be noted that by
default eNBs would use the statically configured PLR thresholds in case
there is no agreement between the UEs on the dynamic PLR allocation,
among the UEs. Upon agreement, the good coverage UE and bad coverage UE
may then signal the agreed DL PLR and UL PLR values to their eNBs to
configure the corresponding SRVCC handover thresholds.

\- As such, the UL PLR as set by the dynamic allocation policy will help
to sustain the LTE voice connection for a longer amount of time, and
delay the SRVCC handover until the UL PLR exceeds 8.5%. On the contrary,
the static allocation policy would have triggered SRVCC when the UL PLR
exceeded 4.5% (under the 50-50 allocation) or 6.3% (under the 70-30
allocation). This demonstrates the potential performance enhancement
from the use of a dynamic PLR allocation framework over static PLR
allocation.

\- For static (non-moving) UEs, channel conditions will tend to persist
for a long period of time. As such, once the UL and DL PLR values have
been set as per the dynamic allocation policy, there is no need to
change them for a long period of time, potentially for the entire
duration of the voice call.

\- For mobile (moving) UEs, the channel conditions will vary over time,
and as such it will be necessary to update the dynamic PLR allocation
values over time. However, given the even for moving UEs, the frequency
of the PLR updates are expected to be manageable during the course of
the MTSI voice session.

**Example 2: Sender in Good Coverage (UL), Receiver in Poor Coverage
(DL)**

\- EVS and EVS-CA are negotiated as codecs for the session. Thus, MaxPLR
for the end-to-end connection is 9%, as per Table 5.1.

\- Consider two static PLR allocation schemes for reference toward the
performance comparison. A 50-50 static PLR allocation policy would set
both DL PLR and UL PLR to 4.5%. A 70-30 static allocation policy would
set DL PLR to 2.7% and UL PLR to 6.3%.

\- Due to very poor coverage on the receiver side, EVS-CA mode needs to
be used based on the MTSI client adaptation. In the meantime, due to the
good UL coverage conditions, the sender can transmit the voice packets
at a negligibly small PLR to its eNB. Thus, most of the end-to-end PLR
budget may be allocated to DL PLR. As such, DL PLR can be set to \~9% by
the dynamic allocation policy. To make this allocation happen, the poor
coverage UE makes a request by signaling the UL PLR value close to 0%,
say 0.5% (or a corresponding UL/DL ratio value, say 0.05 or lower) to
the good coverage UE, and then the good coverage UE agrees to this PLR
allocation and signals back accordingly. The good coverage UE and bad
coverage UE may then signal the agreed DL PLR and UL PLR values to their
eNBs to configure the corresponding SRVCC handover thresholds.

\- As such, the DL PLR as set by the dynamic allocation policy will help
to sustain the LTE voice connection for a longer amount of time, and
delay the SRVCC handover until the DL PLR exceeds 8.5%. On the contrary,
the static allocation policy would have triggered SRVCC when the DL PLR
exceeded 4.5% (under the 50-50 allocation) or 2.7% (under the 70-30
allocation). This demonstrates the potential performance enhancement
from the use of a dynamic PLR allocation framework over static PLR
allocation.

\- For static and mobile UEs, the same considerations as in Example 1
above apply. As such, once the UL and DL PLR values have been set as per
the dynamic allocation policy, there is no need to change them for a
reasonably long period of time and the frequency of PLR updates is
expected to be low.

**Example 3: Sender in Poor Coverage (UL), Receiver in Poor Coverage
(DL)**

\- EVS and EVS-CA are negotiated as codecs for the session. Thus, MaxPLR
for the end-to-end connection is 9%, as per Table 5.1.

\- Consider two static PLR allocation schemes for reference toward the
performance comparison. A 50-50 static PLR allocation policy would set
both DL PLR and UL PLR to 4.5%. A 70-30 static allocation policy would
set DL PLR to 2.7% and UL PLR to 6.3%.

\- Due to very poor coverage on both the sender and receiver sides,
EVS-CA mode needs to be used based on the MTSI client adaptation.
End-to-end PLR budget needs to be allocated very carefully between DL
PLR and UL PLR as SRVCC may be triggered on both ends due to poor
coverage conditions and determining the optimal DL PLR and UL PLR can
help to sustain the LTE voice connections on both ends for a longer
amount of time.

\- As part of the dynamic PLR allocation, both UEs will seek to use from
the available end-to-end PLR budget as much as possible. As such, it is
likely that both UEs will request a significant portion from the
available end-to-end PLR budget. This may lead to back and forth
exchanges between the UEs on the dynamic PLR allocation. The UEs may
agree on a DL and UL PLR allocation that will fulfil the PLR demands on
both links. In case of no agreement, a fallback to the static PLR
allocation policy would be more suitable in this scenario.

**Example 4: Sender in Good Coverage (UL), Receiver in Good Coverage
(DL)**

\- EVS and EVS-CA are negotiated as codecs for the session. Thus, MaxPLR
for the end-to-end connection is 9%, as per Table 5.1.

\- Consider two static PLR allocation schemes for reference toward the
performance comparison. A 50-50 static PLR allocation policy would set
both DL PLR and UL PLR to 4.5%. A 70-30 static allocation policy would
set DL PLR to 2.7% and UL PLR to 6.3%.

\- Due to good coverage conditions on both the sender and receiver
sides, EVS mode is used based on the MTSI client adaptation. The
likelihood of triggering SRVCC is quite small in this setting. As such,
static PLR allocation and dynamic PLR allocation yield the same result.

**Bi-Directional Communication Considerations**

The relevant MTSI scenario of when one UE is in good coverage, say UE1,
and other UE is in poor coverage, say UE2, is the combination of
Examples 1 and 2 above. In particular, Example 1 would be applicable for
the RTP media streamed from UE2 to UE1, and Example 2 would be
applicable for the RTP media streamed from UE1 to UE2, as part of the
MTSI voice call.

Table 8.4 illustrates the corresponding PLR allocations for the static
PLR allocation (50:50 and 70:30) and dynamic PLR allocation strategies
described in Examples 1 and 2. As such, SRVCC for the poor coverage UE
(i.e. UE2) is governed by the DL PLR and UL PLR thresholds in the third
and fourth rows of Table Z. It can be seen that dynamic PLR allocation
strategy leads to a significant increase in the DL and UL PLR thresholds
to serve as SRVCC triggers. In particular, for the poor coverage UE (UE2
in this example), the measured DL PLR and UL PLR values are likely to be
high. As such, SRVCC would be triggered when measured DL PLR or UL PLR
exceeds 4.5% in the 50:50 static PLR allocation scenario. Likewise,
SRVCC would be triggered when measured DL PLR exceeds 2.7% or measured
UL PLR exceeds 6.3% in the 70:30 static PLR allocation scenario. For
dynamic PLR allocation, SRVCC would only be triggered when measured DL
PLR or UL PLR exceeds 8.5%. This demonstrates that, compared to the
static allocation strategies, the dynamic PLR allocation strategy will
allow further delaying the SRVCC handover for the poor coverage UE,
provided that the remote end UE experiences sufficiently good coverage.

Table 8.4: Comparison of Static and Dynamic PLR Allocation Strategies

  -------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------------------
  Parameter                                    50:50 Static PLR Allocation   70:30 Static PLR Allocation   Dynamic PLR Allocation
  DL PLR threshold at UE1 (Good Coverage UE)   4.5%                          2.7%                          Variable (0.5% for Examples 1 and 2)
  UL PLR threshold at UE1 (Good Coverage UE)   4.5%                          6.3%                          Variable (0.5% for Examples 1 and 2)
  DL PLR threshold at UE2 (Poor Coverage UE)   4.5%                          2.7%                          Variable (8.5% for Examples 1 and 2)
  UL PLR threshold at UE2 (Poor Coverage UE)   4.5%                          6.3%                          Variable (8.5% for Examples 1 and 2)
  -------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------------------

**Sample Timeline of Events with Static and Dynamic PLR Allocation**

In Table 8.5, a sample timeline of events with static and dynamic PLR
allocation strategies is presented based on the setup described in
Examples 1-4, and resulting DL PLR and UL PLR thresholds presented in
Table 8.4. The table presents a sample set of the measured DL PLR and UL
PLR values on both ends of the link during an MTSI voice call between
UE1 and UE2. In this example, UE1 is placed close to the eNB to have
good coverage, while UE2 is farther away from the eNB to experience poor
coverage. Measured DL PLR and UL PLR values for UE1 and UE2 were
obtained in a system-level simulation environment considering the Urban
Macrocell (UMa) deployment scenario of the IMT-Advanced evaluation
methodology \[7\] with UE mobility at 3km/h, using a 2x2 antenna
configuration for DL, 1x2 antenna configuration for UL and an inter-site
distance (ISD) of 500m. Moreover, the simulation configuration was
established based on the VoIP evaluation methodology of \[7\].

For the dynamic PLR allocation, the agreed UL/DL PLR ratios in the two
directions are also presented. The first UL/DL PLR ratio number in the
table is for UL PLR at UE2 and DL PLR at UE1, and the second UL/DL PLR
ratio number is for UL PLR at UE1 and DL PLR at UE2.

For the 50:50 static PLR allocation policy, based on the PLR thresholds
in Table 8.4, SRVCC is triggered at time = 2s. For the 70:30 static PLR
allocation policy, based on the PLR thresholds in Table 8.4, SRVCC is
triggered at time = 6s. The dynamic PLR allocation is able to adaptively
select the UL/DL PLR ratios with varying link conditions and is able to
avoid SRVCC during the entire 10s period. In this case, given the
extremely good DL/UL coverage conditions for UE1, SRVCC is avoided by
maintaining the same dynamic PLR allocation over the entire 10s period.

Table 8.5: Sample Timeline with Static and Dynamic PLR Allocation
Strategies

  ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------
  Parameter                                Time =2 s                                        Time = 4s                                        Time = 6s                                        Time = 8s                                        Time = 10s
  Measured DL PLR at UE1                   0%                                               0%                                               0%                                               0%                                               0%
  Measured UL PLR at UE1                   0%                                               0%                                               0%                                               0%                                               0%
  Measured DL PLR at UE2                   2.7%                                             2.2%                                             5.9%                                             3%                                               2%
  Measured UL PLR at UE2                   4.6%                                             2.6%                                             6.7%                                             5.2%                                             3.7%
  Outcome of 50:50 Static PLR Allocation   **SRVCC triggered**                                                                                                                                                                                 
  Outcome of 70:30 Static PLR Allocation   No SRVCC triggered                               No SRVCC triggered                               **SRVCC triggered**                                                                               
  Outcome of Dynamic PLR Allocation        Agree on 80:20 & 20:80, **No SRVCC triggered**   Maintain 80:20 & 20:80, **No SRVCC triggered**   Maintain 80:20 & 20:80, **No SRVCC triggered**   Maintain 80:20 & 20:80, **No SRVCC triggered**   Maintain 80:20 & 20:80, **No SRVCC triggered**
  ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------

In Table 8.6, another sample timeline of events with static and dynamic
PLR allocation strategies is presented based on the setup described in
Examples 1-4, and resulting DL PLR and UL PLR thresholds presented in
Table 8.4. In this example, both UE1 and UE2 are assumed to experience
coverage issues. Otherwise, the same simulation setup used to generate
the results in Table 8.5 was used.

For the dynamic PLR allocation, the agreed UL/DL PLR ratios in the two
directions are also again presented. The first UL/DL PLR ratio number in
the table is for UL PLR at UE2 and DL PLR at UE1, and the second UL/DL
PLR ratio number is for UL PLR at UE1 and DL PLR at UE2. To consider as
few configurations as possible, UL/DL PLR ratios are constrained such
that the numerator and denominator values are to be multiples of 10,
i.e. leading to configurations such as 50:50, 40:60, 30:70, etc.

For the 50:50 static PLR allocation policy, based on the PLR thresholds
in Table 8.4, SRVCC is triggered at time = 2s. For the 70:30 static PLR
allocation policy, based on the PLR thresholds in Table 8.4, SRVCC is
triggered at time = 6s. The dynamic PLR allocation is able to adaptively
select the UL/DL PLR ratios with varying link conditions and is able to
avoid SRVCC during the first 8s. During time=10s, none of the
constrained UL/DL PLR ratios would lead to SRVCC PLR thresholds that
fall below the measured PLR values, and hence SRVCC is triggered.
Otherwise, an UL/DL PLR allocation of (45:55) & (70:30) could have
prevented SRVCC at time=10s as well.

Table 8.6: Another Sample Timeline with Static and Dynamic PLR
Allocation Strategies

  ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------
  Parameter                                Time =2 s                                        Time = 4s                                        Time = 6s                                        Time = 8s                                        Time = 10s
  Measured DL PLR at UE1                   2.2%                                             2%                                               1.8%                                             3.5%                                             4.6%
  Measured UL PLR at UE1                   3.6%                                             3.5%                                             2.4%                                             3.4%                                             6.3%
  Measured DL PLR at UE2                   2.7%                                             2.2%                                             5.9%                                             3%                                               2%
  Measured UL PLR at UE2                   4.6%                                             2.6%                                             6.7%                                             5.2%                                             3.7%
  Outcome of 50:50 Static PLR Allocation   **SRVCC triggered**                                                                                                                                                                                 
  Outcome of 70:30 Static PLR Allocation   No SRVCC triggered                               No SRVCC triggered                               **SRVCC triggered**                                                                               
  Outcome of Dynamic PLR Allocation        Agree on 70:30 & 50:50, **No SRVCC triggered**   Maintain 70:30 & 50:50, **No SRVCC triggered**   Agree on 80:20 & 30:70, **No SRVCC triggered**   Agree on 60:40 & 50:50, **No SRVCC triggered**   **SRVCC triggered**
  ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------

**Implications on Signalling Frequency:**

The relevant question in this context is to understand what kind of
signalling frequency would be required to realize such dynamic PLR
allocation strategies. As described by the examples above, the scenario
when the dynamic PLR allocation leads to a performance improvement over
the static PLR allocation in an MTSI call is when one UE experiences
poor coverage while the other UE experiences good coverage.

If the UEs are static, such coverage conditions tend to persist for a
long time, i.e. potentially for the entire duration of the MTSI voice
session. If the UEs are mobile, the coverage conditions may vary over
time, depending on the UE mobility. Even in this case however, the same
coverage conditions on average will persist in the order of a few
seconds considering the various mobility levels of the IMT Advanced
evaluation methodology \[7\], i.e. speeds of 3 km/h and 30 km/h for the
Urban Macrocell (UMa) and 120 km/h for the Rural Macrocell (RMa)
deployment models.

Figure 8.2.2 contains the simulated DL PLR curves based on the
IMT-Advanced evaluation methodology \[7\] for the various UEs
experiencing PLRs in the range of 1%-10%, at mobility levels 3 km/h
(UMa), 30 km/h (UMa) and 120 km/h (RMa). The simulation configuration
was established based on the VoIP evaluation methodology of \[7\]. The
system operates close to its VoIP capacity with 50, 44 and 38 VoIP UEs
per sector per MHz for 3, 30 and 120 km/h, respectively. Most of the
other UEs experience PLRs close to 0 (these were not plotted) for the
entire duration of the simulation. In particular, on average, 96.3% of
the UEs experience 0% PLR, 2.1% of the UEs experience PLRs in the range
of 0-10% and 1.6% of the UEs experience PLRs above 10%. The averaging
window size for PLR measurements is 5 seconds long, the window slide to
update PLR estimates is 0.25 seconds and the total simulation time is 40
seconds. A 2x2 DL antenna configuration and an inter-site distance (ISD)
of 500m were considered.

It can be observed from the plots that the same coverage conditions on
average will persist in the order of several seconds considering all
three mobility levels. As such, when a UE agrees on a certain dynamic
PLR allocation, it can be expected that this agreed-upon PLR allocation
can be maintained for at least several seconds for all of the mobility
levels. In other words, if an MTSI voice session is established between
a poor coverage UE and a good coverage UE, and the DL/UL PLR thresholds
for SRVCC at the respective eNBs are chosen based on the a dynamic PLR
allocation policy, it is highly likely that these DL/UL PLR thresholds
may be sustained in the order of several seconds without the need for
any additional signalling to modify the agreed-upon PLR allocation,
since the good coverage UE will remain in good coverage, and poor
coverage UE will remain in poor coverage with similar range of PLR
variations. Hence, it is concluded that the frequency of the PLR updates
and signaling necessary to realize the dynamic PLR allocation strategies
described above are in the order of several seconds and therefore are
expected to be manageable during the course of the MTSI voice session.

![](media/image11.wmf){width="3.3in"
height="2.475in"}![](media/image12.wmf){width="3.3in" height="2.475in"}

\(a\) (b)

![](media/image13.wmf){width="3.3in"
height="2.475in"}![](media/image14.wmf){width="3.3in" height="2.475in"}

\(c\) (d)

![](media/image15.wmf){width="3.3in"
height="2.475in"}![](media/image16.wmf){width="3.3in" height="2.475in"}

\(e\) (f)

Figure 8.4: Simulated PLR curves for various mobility levels, 3 km/h, 30
km/h, and 120 km/h

### 8.2.3 Network-requested UL and DL PLR

#### 8.2.3.1 General

In the following set of solutions, after the exchange of the required
max\_e2e\_PLR in each transmission direction, the UEs or the network
determine what maximum PLR is needed for the uplink and downlink (Figure
8.5). Then the network sends the required maximum UL PLR and DL PLR
values to the eNBs using messages that would be specified in SA2.

Figure 8.5: Network-requested UL PLR and DL PLR

How the UEs and networks can determine the UL PLR and DL PLR to request
of each eNB is described in the following clauses. One distinction to
observe among the potential solutions is whether (i) the UL PLR and DL
PLR are set statically at the session level and kept the same regardless
of the local RAN conditions as in clauses 8.2.3.2 to 8.2.3.5, or (ii)
the UL PLR and DL PLR are dynamically allocated according to the local
RAN conditions on both ends of the link, as in clause 8.2.3.6.

#### 8.2.3.2 Simple Ratio

This follows the same principle as in clause 8.2.2.2 where a ratio of UL
PLR: DL PLR is configured or agreed among the PCRFs. Based on this
ration the PCRFs can allocate the appropriate proportion of
max\_e2e\_PLR to their local eNB\'s uplink and downlink. If UL PLR: DL
PLR = R then:

\- PCRF A asks its eNB to support on its uplink, UL\_PLR\_A =
(max\_e2e\_PLR\_B) \[R /(R+1)\]

\- PCRF A asks its eNB to support on its downlink, DL\_PLR\_A =
(max\_e2e\_PLR\_A) \[1 /(R+1)\]

\- PCRF B asks its eNB to support on its uplink, UL\_PLR\_B =
(max\_e2e\_PLR\_A) \[R /(R+1)\]

\- PCRF B asks its eNB to support on its downlink, DL\_PLR\_B =
(max\_e2e\_PLR\_B) \[1 /(R+1)\]

#### 8.2.3.3 SDP-Negotiated

This follows the same principle as in clause 8.2.2.3 where the UEs
negotiate the proportion of the max\_e2e\_PLR to their local eNB\'s
uplink and downlink. However, instead of having the UEs request the
resulting uplink and downlink PLRs directly from the eNBs, the
CSCF/PCRFs examine the SDP answer to extract the negotiated PLR
configuration and communicate the appropriate values to their local
eNBs.

For example, if UE A is the offerer and UE B is the answerer then the
PCRFs would perform the following with SDP parameters included SDP
answer:

\- PCRF A asks its eNB to support on its uplink, UL\_PLR\_A =
UL\_PLR\_Off (the value included in the SDP answer)

\- PCRF A asks its eNB to support on its downlink, DL\_PLR\_A =
DL\_PLR\_Off (the value included in the SDP answer)

\- PCRF B asks its eNB to support on its uplink, UL\_PLR\_B =
UL\_PLR\_Ans

\- PCRF B asks its eNB to support on its downlink, DL\_PLR\_B =
DL\_PLR\_Ans

#### 8.2.3.4 PCRF-Negotiated

This is similar to the approach described in clause 8.2.3.3 except that
the negotiation of what proportion of the max\_e2e\_PLR to allocate to
the eNBs uplinks and downlinks is performed by CSCFs/PCRFs as follows:

\- UE A (the offerer) in its SDP offer indicates its max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off.

\- CSCF/PCRF A sees this parameter value and based on operator policy,
decides how it would prefer to allocate a proportion of
max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off across the downlink of eNB A and indicates this by
adding DL\_PLR\_Off in the SDP offer.

\- CSCF/PCRF A also indicates its preferred uplink PLR by adding
UL\_PLR\_Off into the offer.

\- CSCF/PCRF B stores the values of DL\_PLR\_Off and UL\_PLR\_Off in the
SDP offer and removes these SDP parameters from the SDP offer before
forwarding this onto UE B.

\- UE B receives the SDP offer, and responds by including its
max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans in the SDP answer it sends back.

\- CSCF/PCRF B receives the SDP answer, and checks that, DL\_PLR\_Ans,
plus UL\_PLR\_Off is less than max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans.

\- If this condition is met then CSCF/PCRF B adds DL\_PLR\_Ans and
UL\_PLR\_Off into the SDP Answer.

\- Otherwise, CSCF/PCRF B modifies both DL\_PLR\_Ans and UL\_PLR\_Off so
that their sum is less than max\_e2e\_PLR\_Ans, then includes them into
the SDP answer.

\- Similarly, CSCF/PCRF A checks that, UL\_PLR\_Ans, plus DL\_PLR\_Off
is less than max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off:

\- If this condition is met then CSCF/PCRF A adds UL\_PLR\_Ans and
DL\_PLR\_Off into the SDP Answer.

\- Otherwise, CSCF/PCRF B modifies both UL\_PLR\_Ans and DL\_PLR\_Off so
that their sum is less than max\_e2e\_PLR\_Off, then includes them into
the SDP answer.

\- When CSCF/PCRF A receives the SDP answer it may reject it if the
values of UL\_PLR\_Off and DL\_PLR\_Off that were modified by CSCF/PCRF
B are not acceptable. If CSCF/PCRF A accepts the SDP answer then both
CSCF/PCRF A and CSCF/PCRF B have all the information they need to
communicate the required UL and DL PLRs to their local eNBs.

#### 8.2.3.5 PCRF-Negotiated using single SDP parameter

In this approach only a single SDP parameter, max\_e2e\_PLR, is defined
and used. In the description below the \"\_A\" and \"\_B\" extensions
are added to make it easier to understand what is being described. In
the actual SDP only the max\_e2e\_PLR parameter needs to be used.

The procedures are as follows:

\- UE A sends its max\_e2e\_PLR\_A in the SDP offer.

\- CSCF/PCRF A sees this parameter in the SDP offer and decides that it
will allocate on the downlink to UE A DL\_PLR\_A which is less than
max\_e2e\_PLR\_A.

\- CSCF/PCRF A also modifies the parameter in the SDP offer to indicate
a:

\- new max\_e2e\_PLR\_A = old max\_e2e\_PLR\_A -- DL\_PLR\_A.

\- This modified SDP offer is sent to the CSCF/PCRF B.

\- CSCF/PCRF B uses the modified max\_e2e\_PLR\_A value in the SDP offer
to set the uplink PLR at eNB B, UL\_PLR\_B = new max\_e2e\_PLR\_A.
CSCF/PCRF B could also choose to use a UL\_PLR\_B \< new
max\_e2e\_PLR\_A if it did not want to use the entire e2e PLR budget.

In the reverse direction a similar procedure happens:

\- UE B sends its max\_e2e\_PLR\_B in the SDP answer.

\- The local CSCF/PCRF B takes a portion of max\_e2e\_PLR\_B and
allocates it to the downlink of eNB B in DL\_PLR\_B.

\- CSCF/PCRF B modifies the max\_e2e\_PLR\_B in the SDP answer to new
max\_e2e\_PLR\_B = old max\_e2e\_PLR\_B -- DL\_PLR\_B

\- CSCF/PCRF B then sends this new max\_e2e\_PLR\_B value to CSCF/PCRF
A.

\- CSCF/PCRF A uses the new max\_e2e\_PLR\_B value in the SDP answer to
set the uplink PLR at eNB A, UL\_PLR\_A = new max\_e2e\_PLR\_B.
CSCF/PCRF A could also choose to use a UL\_PLR\_A \< new
max\_e2e\_PLR\_B if it did not want to use the entire e2e PLR budget.

#### 8.2.3.6 Dynamic Allocation of UL PLR and DL PLR

The network-requested DL and UL PLR framework as described above leads
to static allocation and configuration of DL PLR and UL PLR values. If
such a framework is used, the respective eNBs may determine the SRVCC
thresholds based on these PLR values as configured by the network.

On top of this, the UE-based signaling described in clause 8.2.2.4 may
be used to dynamically exchange information on UL PLR and DL PLR
allocation between the UEs and signal this information to the respective
eNBs. The eNBs may then override the SRVCC thresholds based on the
dynamically signaled PLR information from the UEs. As such, it would be
possible to dynamically optimize the allocation of DL PLR and UL PLR
values, which leads to the most optimal selection of the SRVCC handover
thresholds on both ends of the link.

8.3 Conclusion
--------------

This Clause evaluated the benefits of two types of functionality for
realizing codec-aware SRVCC enhancements:

1\) SDP-based signalling of max\_e2e\_PLR, DL/UL PLR (or PLR ratio)
values considering the potential solutions as per clauses 8.2.2.3,
8.2.3.3.

2\) RTP/RTCP-based indication of recommended DL/UL PLR (or PLR ratio)
values considering the potential solutions as per clauses 8.2.2.4 and
8.2.3.6.

Both of these approaches improve the selection of the DL/UL PLR
thresholds at the eNB for triggering SRVCC, by providing further
enhancements on top of the determination of the DL/UL PLR threshold
values at the PCRF based on the negotiated codecs and codec modes (as
described in clauses 4.2.1 and 5.2.1).

SDP-based signalling of max\_e2e\_PLR allows for considering the
receiving UE capabilities including, for example, jitter buffer
management (JBM) and packet loss concealment (PLC), in addition to the
negotiated codecs and codec modes. As such, for an MTSI session
involving bidirectional media communication between two UEs, different
max\_e2e\_PLR values may be negotiated for each of the two media streams
depending on each UE\'s JBM and PLC capabilities. This also helps choose
the DL/UL PLR thresholds for SRVCC differently at the eNBs depending on
the negotiated max\_e2e\_PLR values.

The RTP/RTCP-based indication of the recommended DL/UL PLR (or PLR
ratio) values realizes a dynamic PLR allocation framework on DL PLR and
UL PLR thresholds. This framework enables further optimizations of the
SRVCC thresholds for DL and UL after initial setting of the DL PLR and
UL PLR thresholds at the eNB based on the signalling from the PCRF. The
dynamic PLR allocation realizes this enhancement by adapting the DL PLR
and UL PLR thresholds to the local RAN conditions considering UE
coverage, leading to the SRVCC performance improvements as documented in
clause 8.2.2.4.

Note: SDP-based signalling of max\_e2e\_PLR, DL/UL PLR (or PLR ratio)
requires CT1/3/4 and SA2 support. RTP/RTCP-based indication of
recommended DL/UL PLR (or PLR ratio) values requires RAN2 support.

9 Conclusions
=============

Based on the Conclusions in clauses 5.3, 6.3, 7.3, and 8.3, it is
recommended to conduct normative work to specify the following in TS
26.114:

1\) Include in an annex MaxPLR operating points for different codecs
considering the examples as per clauses 5.2 and 5.3 (see Annex X of 3GPP
TS 26.114 \[3\]).

2\) Adaptation capability indication (using a new SDP attribute)
considering the potential solutions as per clauses 7.2 and 7.3 (see
Annexes W.1, W.2, and W.3 of 3GPP TS 26.114 \[3\]).

3\) SDP-based signalling of max\_e2e\_PLR, DL/UL PLR (or PLR ratio)
values considering the potential solutions as per clauses 8.2.2.3,
8.2.3.3, 8.2.3.4, and 8.2.3.5 (see Annex W.4 of 3GPP TS 26.114 \[3\]).

4\) RTP/RTCP-based indication of recommended DL/UL PLR (or PLR ratio)
values considering the potential solutions as per clauses 8.2.2.4 and
8.2.3.6. This approach has not been pursued in the normative
specification because of lack of the necessary RAN2 support.

Note: The above SDP-based signalling and RTP/RTCP-based indication
requires CT1/CT3/CT4/SA2 and RAN2 support, respectively.

The recommendations on MaxPLR operating points for different codecs
(bullet 1 above) serves at the center of the anticipated eVoLP
capabilities in TS 26.114, for both the network-based and UE-based
architectures described in clause 4.2. It is noted that among these
architectures, the network-based architecture in clause 4.2.1 is already
supported through the signalling from PCRF to eNB as defined in TS
23.203 and TS 23.401, and as such enables early deployments of eVoLP.

Among the three eVoLP functionalities listed in bullets 2, 3 and 4
above, it is expected that the adaptation capability indication will be
mandatory for eVoLP-capable MTSI clients, while the remaining two
functionalities will be defined as supplemental and left optional for
eVoLP-capable MTSI clients. A key reason for this is that adaptation
capability indication serves as a critical eVoLP functionality allowing
the derivation of MaxPLR at the PCRF (in case of the network-based
architecture) based on the most robust codec mode among the negotiated
codecs and codec modes, while in the absence of this parameter the
MaxPLR would have to be derived based on the least robust codec mode.

Adaptation capability indication and negotiation based on the SDP
\'adapt\' parameter (bullet 2 above) and SDP-based signalling of
max\_e2e\_PLR, DL/UL PLR (or PLR ratio) values (bullet 3 above) would
lead to definition of new SDP parameters in TS 26.114, requiring core
network support. RTP/RTCP-based indication of recommended DL/UL PLR (or
PLR ratio) values (bullet 4 above) would lead to definition of
*conceptual message* formats between the UE and eNB in TS 26.114
(similar to the *conceptual message* formats for ANBR in TS 26.114),
requiring RAN support toward determining the exact message mapping, e.g.
for LTE or NR access. As such, upon completion of normative work in TS
26.114, it is expected that these core network and RAN dependencies will
also have to be addressed in coordination with the relevant 3GPP working
groups.

Figure 9.1 illustrates the relationships between the core functionality
and different optional enhancements specified in the normative feature
"Coverage and Handoff Enhancements for Multimedia" (CHEM) in Annex W of
TS 26.114. Clauses W.1 and W.2 specify the basic core functionality, the
minimum requirement, needed to use the CHEM feature. Clause W.4
specifies the optional enhancement to negotiate the end-to-end PLR
values on both the uplink and downlink of each MTSI client. Clause W.3
specifies the another optional enhancement to use application layer
redundancy to improve media robustness and use specifically-scoped
in-band RTP CMR codepoints to request application layer redundancy.

![](media/image18.png){width="3.884027777777778in"
height="3.1694444444444443in"}

Figure 9.1: Core function and optional enhancements of the normative
feature "Coverage and Handoff Enhancements for Multimedia (CHEM)".
References are to clauses in 3GPP TS 26.114.

######### Annex A: Informal Objective and Subjective Experiments for Obtaining Max. PLR Operating Points with and without Application Layer Redundancy

**Experiment A.1**

MOS LQO statistics of certain example codec operating points as per
Table 5.1 in clause 5.2.1.1 are presented in Figure A.1. The ITU-T
P.863.1 recommendation is used to generate the MOS-LQO statistics over
Clean speech (North American English database, 4 male, 4 female talkers,
5 sentences pairs (8 sec) per talker), over frame erasure rates of
3%-10%.

VoLTE Delay loss profiles 7, 8, 9, and 10 that were used in EVS
Characterization testing (TR 26.952, Experiment S1) are used to obtain
the MOS-LQO statistics for EVS 13.2 SWB, 13.2 CA SWB Offset 3, 2x7.2,
2x13.2, 2x13.2 CA, and IO 23.85. The experiment includes 100%
application layer redundancy with Offset 2, resulting in 2xbitrate.

![](media/image19.wmf){width="6.5in" height="3.5854166666666667in"}

Figure A.1: ITU-T P.863.1 MOS-LQO statistics of different codec
operating points (as per Table 5.1) at different FER ranges with and
without application layer redundancy

**Experiment A.2**

Unlike Experiment A.1 that was based on the VoLTE delay profiles, this
experiment was based on random channel errors (at FER of 3, 6, 9, and
12%) without Jitter from EVS qualification scripts. The simulation
included 100% application-layer redundancy (offset=2). Loss patterns
were generated as in EVS qualification with the \'gen-patt\' tool from
ITU-T STL with gamma=1 (i.e. Gilbert model operated with random errors
and no memory). Packet loss patterns used a random generation with a
uniform i.i.d distribution, therefore the performance with 100%
application-layer redundancy at PLR rate p corresponds to the
performance without redundancy at PLR rate p^2^ (in the asymptotic
case). This is a conservative case as it does not include the Jitter and
other bursty channel characteristics of a VoLTE profile.

As an example EVS configuration with br=9.6-24.4 kbit/s, bw=swb, one may
enable the 2\*9.6 kb/s (redundancy) condition in the allowed bearer. For
other configurations, e.g. br=5.9-24.4, bw=nb-swb, the application layer
redundancy can exercise many different options, e.g. 2x5.9, 3x5.9,
2x7.2, 3x7.2, 2x8, 3x8, and 2x9.6 within the allowed bearer.

From Figure A.2 the maximum PLR operating point with application layer
redundancy is about 3% more than without application layer redundancy
(i.e. 9.6 kbps at 6% FER and 24.4 kbps at 3% FER). This analysis does
not take into account the corresponding path loss characteristics at
higher bitrates and is a conservative estimate.

![](media/image20.wmf){width="4.8597222222222225in"
height="3.642361111111111in"}

Figure A.2: Test results for EVS Primary (SWB) performance in loss
conditions, with and without application-layer redundancy

**Experiment A.3.**

The P.800 ACR test methodology was used to study the Max. PLR operating
points with application layer redundancy in addition to the objective
experiments A.1 and A.2.

The test included 48 conditions and used Listening level at 73 dB SPL
(diotic listening with Sennheiser 380Pro), 48 naive listeners (6 panels
of 8 listeners), 24 clean speech samples with 4 talkers and 6 samples
per talker. Further the test included 1152 processed sequences with 24
blocks for 6 panels (of 8 listeners), 4 blocks per panel. Each block
contained 48 conditions and 4 talkers equally.

The number of votes per condition was 4 x 48 = 192. The overall
listening/scoring duration was around 42 min for each subject (192 x
approx. 13s), without the training session (12 samples) and breaks. Only
random loss conditions (with no memory) were used with the following
target PLR: noisy1 at 3%, noisy2 at 6%, noisy3 at 9%, and noisy4 at 12%.

The processing was done by extending EVS qualification scripts
(Experiment J for SWB with noisy channel). The EVS codec was the latest
fixed-point version (TS 26.442 v14.1). **The overall number of
processing frames was 10,100 (24\*8\*50 frames of speech, with a 10s
silence preamble accounting for 500 frames).** All EVS test conditions
had DTX activated (DTX on). Application-layer redundancy was applied
only to active frames.

The EVS encoding algorithm was not modified - only the bitstream output
was changed by using an extra buffer (queue) of encoded frames outside
the main encoding loop to produce a G.192-extended bitstream including
100% redundancy at a given offset. The EVS decoder was extended to use a
fixed buffer with some extra delay to allow using redundant frame at a
given offset; besides this modified bitstream pre-processing, the EVS
decoding algorithm was not changed. In the test, the offset was set to 2
for both 100% application-layer redundancy and EVS 13.2 channel-aware
(with FEC indicator set to HI).

A summary of test results for the experiment is provided in Figure A.3.
This bar chart shows the average scores with 95% confidence intervals
for all 48 conditions (with reference conditions followed by test
conditions at 0, 3, 6, 9, 12% PLR). The 100% application-layer
conditions are identified with the \'2x\' label.

![](media/image21.wmf){width="6.492361111111111in"
height="3.5416666666666665in"}

Figure A.3: P.800 ACR subjective test results (SWB, clean speech).

**Observations from Experiment A.3:**

The test is based on the P.800 ACR unlike the P.800 DCR subjective test
methodology that was used in the EVS SWB qualification, selection and
characterization testing. With the P.800 ACR test, EVS SWB conditions as
shown in blue bar chart in Figure A.3 is providing a reduced subjective
quality resolution. EVS at 2x7.2 kbps was not included in the test and
cannot make a direct comparison to EVS 13.2 kbps or the most robust
codec mode 13.2 kbps CA mode as per Table 5.1 for a similar bit rate.
The channel conditions considered in this test were limited to random
losses (with no memory). Further tests considering delay/loss profiles
that reflect realistic VoLTE conditions are desirable. This will add
other factors such as channel memory and the influence of jitter buffer
with time scaling artifacts. Loss patterns were not constrained to be
embedded as a function of increasing PLR, therefore slightly irregular
MOS variation across PLR was expected.

######### Annex B: Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                    
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                       **New version**
  2017-12              78            SP-170833                                Presented to TSG SA\#78 for information   1.0.0
  2018-06              SA\#80        SP-180283                                Presented to TSG SA\#80 for approval      2.0.0
  2018-06              SA\#80                                                 Approved at TSG SA\#80 plenary meeting    15.0.0
  2019-09              SA\#85        SP-190652   0001     1         B         Updates based on CHEM feature             16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------- -----------------
