######### Source: Coding Technologies

**Title: Evaluation of codec behaviour with special input signals**

**Agenda Item: 7, 12.2**

**Document for: Approval**

####### Introduction

At the SA4 \#36 meeting, Coding Technologies volunteered to provide
input for the characterization item "Content dependency", as per Tdoc
S4-050623. This document contains the input that Coding Technologies was
able to collect by the submission deadline. The results collected in
this document will be included into the TR 26.936.

####### Description of the task performed

Due to the conviction that good and consistent performance for music
signals over a wide variety of material is essential for an audio codec,
and further due to the high commercial relevance of music services for
the mobile industry, Coding Technologies decided to concentrate on the
behaviour of the codecs using music signals spanning a large range of
signals as well as certain specific characteristics. Those signal
characteristics were chosen since they are known to be critical for
audio codecs and since they were not sufficiently covered by the signals
used in the selection and characterization tests so far. By verifying
the codec behaviour for these kinds of critical signals, the aim was to
establish if any systematic problems are present in the codecs, that
have not been discovered during the tests performed so far in the
selection and/or characterization tests. In particular we selected
material which had the following characteristics (names in brackets are
the titles of the items used in the listening test):

a.  complex stereo image (choir, EarlyWarn, Emotions, sm03, vegainstru)

b.  low correlation between left and right channel (IFeelFine, JukeBox,
    ManOn, Paperback. SonFather)

c.  transients (beethoven, higher, OceanOf, tas, xylophone),

d.  important tonal components (Because, C\_Mc05, ccr, Rory5, te27)

Work was performed in a three-step approach. In a first step, a team of
research engineers identified samples in our audio database which
matched the above mentioned characteristics, the loudness level of the
selected originals was aligned in-between each other. In a second step,
an informal listening exercise was performed to determine whether any
systematic effects could be observed for the codecs. Based on the fact
that such systematic effects appeared to be present, we conducted a
formal listening test on a subset of the previously identified material
to confirm the impression from the informal listening.

Detailed information on the origins of the test-items is given in the
table below. It should be noted that all signals were taken directly
from a CD or from existing test sets, none of the items was
pre-processed (except for loudness-level alignment) or artificially
generated by Coding Technologies to create a specific characteristic.

  ------------ ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------
  **Label**    **Title**                            **Origin**
  choir        Ich hatte viel Bekümmernis           Kammerchor Nürnberg
  EarlyWarn    Early Warning                        Rory Gallagher, Photo-finish ( Digitally Remastered )
  Emotions     Emotions                             Mariah Carey, Emotions
  Sm03         Sm03 ("Plucked Strings")             MPEG test-set
  vegainstru   Tom's diner reprise (instrumental)   Suzanne Vega, Solitude Standing
  IFeelFine    I feel fine                          The Beatles, 1
  JukeBox      Juke Box Annie                       Rory Gallagher, Photo-finish ( Digitally Remastered )
  ManOn        Man on the rock                      Astral Doors, Of the Son and the father
  Paperback    Paperback Writer                     The Beatles, 1
  SonFather    Of the son and the father            Astral Doors, Of the Son and the father
  beethoven    Streichquartett op. 18 Nr. 1         Ludwig van Beethoven (Audio Hörkurs 05/2005)
  higher       Higher                               Ezio, Higher
  OceanOf      Ocean of Sand                        Astral Doors, Of the Son and the father
  tas,         Of Snails and Flies                  Teasing a Sphinx, Allegory
  xylophone    Xylophone                            Audio Hörkurs 05/2005
  Because      Because                              The Beatles, Abbey Road
  C\_Mc05      C\_Mc05                              NAB test set
  Ccr          Creedence Clearwater Revival         
  Rory5        I\'ll admit you\'re gone             Rory Gallagher, Calling Card
  te27         Triangles                            MPEG-2 verfication item (source SQAM)
  ------------ ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------

####### Description of the listening tests

Two MUSHRA tests were performed. Each test was conducted by two test
labs. Coding Technologies conducted both tests (with 9 resp. 10
listeners), Fraunhofer (8 listeners) and Philips (8 listeners) served as
the mirror lab for one of the tests each.

Each test included the hidden reference and the usual anchor signals, as
well as the 2 codecs under test at three different bitrates. In
particular, these bitrates were 16 kbps stereo, 24 kbps stereo and 32
kbps stereo. In addition, AMR-WB+ was further tested at 48 kbps stereo.

Each test used 12 input signals. Test "AB" included five samples from
each of characteristic a) and b) plus two music samples taken from the
characterization test set (m\_ot\_x\_1, m\_p\_x\_1). Test "CD" included
five samples from each of characteristic c) and d) plus two music
samples taken from the characterization test set (same as in test "AB").
The objective of including samples from the characterization test was to
verify whether the listening test yields comparable results to the
selection test for these items, in order to provide a further anchor for
interpretation of the results on the special test signals.

Apart from scoring the different codecs for different items and bitrates
in the MUSHRA test, the listeners were also requested to make notes
motivating the scores given, so that a better understanding could be
gained when evaluating the results. Naturally, both the scores and
comments are given in a blind fashion since the listeners do not know
which codec he or she is listening to.

####### Listening test results

The average listening test results can be seen in the following four
diagrams. Diagram 1 and 2 show the average performance across items for
the two test sites for test "AB", diagrams 3 and 4 show the average
performance across items for the two test sites for test "CD". Enhanced
aacPlus is referred to as "AP", AMR-WB+ is referred to as WB, and the
two-digit number denotes the bitrate in kbps.

![](media/image1.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}

*Diagram* *1: Average scores for test AB, test site CT*

![](media/image2.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}

*Diagram* *2: Average scores for test AB, test site FhG*

It is clear that for the test-set AB (i.e. signals with complex stereo
image and low correlation between the two channels), the results are
similar between the two test-sites. Both codecs exhibit increasing
quality with increasing bitrate. Enhanced aacPlus shows a particularly
large quality increase between 16 kbit/s and 24 kbit/s and performs
better than AMR-WB+ at all tested bitrates. It should be noted that
Enhanced aacPlus at 32 kbit/s also outperforms AMR-WB+ at 48 kbit/s with
these input signals.

**Studying the comments accompanying the scores given, it becomes
obvious that the AMR-WB+ has significant problems with instability of
the stereo image with clearly audible switching between a mono and a
stereo impression.**

![](media/image3.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}

*Diagram* *3: Average scores for test CD, test site CT*

![](media/image4.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}

*Diagram* *4: Average scores for test CD, test site Philips*

For the CD test-set (i.e. signals with transients and important tonal
components), the results show similar characteristics as for the AB
test. Again, both codecs show increased quality with increasing bitrate
and the overall quality of Enhanced aacPlus is judged superior to that
of the ARM-WB+ codec.

**Considering the comments given by the listeners again, it seems that
the main issue for the AMR-WB+ codec is bad transient response for the
class c) items. Furthermore, for the class d) items of test CD, the
AMR-WB+ codec shows severe blocking artefacts that introduces artificial
periodicities during tonal parts of the signals.**

Below is a summary of what words that were used to describe the
artifacts for the two codecs at the different bitrates.

  ---------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Codec and bitrate            Comments
  AMR-WBplus 16 kbit/s         wobbling, distortion, bubbly, blocky, unstable, metallic
  AMR-WBplus 24 kbit/s         wobbling, distortion, blocky, metallic, unstable,
  AMR-WBplus 32 kbit/s         unstable stereo image, wobbling, distortion, ghost voice, blocky,
  AMR-WBplus 48 kbit/s         narrow stereo image, unstable, missing presence, distortion
  Enhanced aacPlus 16 kbit/s   metallic, sharp, bubbly, diffuse,
  Enhanced aacPlus 24 kbit/s   diffuse ,slightly metallic, slightly narrow stereo image
  Enhanced aacPlus 32 kbit/s   diffuse ,missing presence
  ---------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------

In a test where the behavior for special input signals is of major
interest, the per-item scores are of course specifically interesting.
Figures 5 to12 show the full per-item scores with all codecs and anchors
present (2 graphs per test to fit paper size). Figures 13 to 20 show
excerpts of the per-item scores, focusing on a subset of the tested
codecs each, for enhanced readability.

![](media/image5.wmf){width="6.305555555555555in" height="4.725in"}

*Diagram* *5: Per-item scores for test AB, test site CT (part 1)*

![](media/image6.wmf){width="6.305555555555555in" height="4.725in"}

*Diagram* *6: Per-item scores for test AB, test site CT (part 2)*

![](media/image7.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="4.379166666666666in"}

*Diagram* *7: Per-item scores for test AB, test site FhG (part 1)*

![](media/image8.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="4.379166666666666in"}

*Diagram* *8: Per-item scores for test AB, test site FhG (part 2)*

![](media/image9.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="4.379166666666666in"}

*Diagram* *9: Per-item scores for test CD, test site CT (part 1)*

![](media/image10.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="4.379166666666666in"}

*Diagram* *10: Per-item scores for test CD, test site CT (part 2)*

![](media/image11.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="4.379166666666666in"}

*Diagram* *11: Per-item scores for test CD, test site Philips (part 1)*

![](media/image12.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="4.379166666666666in"}

*Diagram* *12: Per-item scores for test CD, test site Philips (part 2)*

![](media/image13.wmf){width="6.676388888888889in"
height="4.248611111111111in"}

*Diagram* *13*

![](media/image14.wmf){width="6.676388888888889in"
height="4.248611111111111in"}

*Diagram* *14*

![](media/image15.wmf){width="6.676388888888889in"
height="4.248611111111111in"}

*Diagram* *15*

![](media/image16.wmf){width="6.676388888888889in"
height="4.248611111111111in"}

*Diagram* *16*

![](media/image17.wmf){width="6.676388888888889in"
height="4.248611111111111in"}

*Diagram* *17*

![](media/image18.wmf){width="6.676388888888889in"
height="4.248611111111111in"}

*Diagram* *18*

![](media/image19.wmf){width="6.731944444444444in"
height="4.276388888888889in"}

*Diagram* *19*

![](media/image20.wmf){width="6.731944444444444in"
height="4.276388888888889in"}

*Diagram* *20*

**Looking at the per-item results for the signal characteristics a) and
b) (diagrams 5 to 8 and diagrams 13 to 16) we can see for most items a
significant degradation in subjective quality relative to the two
reference tracks from the characterization test for AMR-WB+. We can also
observe a similar effect for Enhanced aacPlus, but only on very few
items, in particular for "choir". The degradation appears to be more
pronounced at higher bitrates, however this may be related to floor
effects.**

**When looking at the diagrams 9 to 12 and 17 to 20 respectively (signal
characteristics c) and d) ), we again recognize a clear degradation in
subjective quality relative to the two reference tracks from the
characterization test for AMR-WB+ for most of the test items. We can
also observe a similar effect for Enhanced aacPlus, but only on very few
items, in particular for "te27".**

####### Conclusions

**The tests which have been presented in this document focus on
real-world music signals with special characteristics, some of which
would be considered critical. The tested material is largely trying to
close gaps in the signal characteristics used in the selection and
characterization test so far. The goal of the test was to determine
whether such material reveals any systematic shortcomings in any of the
two codecs as well as the performance consistency across a wider range
of critical music samples.**

**The tests reveal several aspects which appear to be systematic and
lead to a significant performance degradation for the ARM-WB+ codec.
Relative to average material such as that used in the selection and
characterization tests the performance degradation has to be considered
significant, leading to an overall inconsistent codec behaviour.**

**In particular, the AMR-WB+ codec showed systematic degradation for
signals with complex stereo images, signals with a low correlation
between the two channels, strong transients and pronounced tonal
components.**
