**3GPP TSG SA4 meeting \#25bis S4-030248**

**Berlin, Germany, 24. --28.Feb 2003 Agenda Item: SES**

**Title: Design Constraints for default codec for speech enabled
services (SES)**

Source: SQ-SWG
==============

**Contact: Bernhard Noé , Bernhard.Noe\@alcatel.de**

**Version: 1.4**

**Summary:**

This document describes the design constraints for the codecs for speech
enabled services

Sampling Rates
==============

Sampling rates of 8 & 16kHz will be supported.

Complexity
==========

The terminal side processing of the codec has to be able to be
implemented within the resources of a typical mobile phone terminal.
Accordingly the maximum complexity requirements for terminal side codec
have been defined as shown in tables below. Table 1 shows complexity
requirements for codec supporting 8kHz sampling rate and table 2 shows
numbers for codec supporting 16 kHz sampling rate.

  ------------- ---------------------
  **Measure**   **Requirement**
  WMOPS         Less than 25
  ROM size      Less than 20 kwords
  RAM size      Less than 7 kwords
  ------------- ---------------------

Table 1: complexity and memory requirements for codec supporting 8 kHz
sampling rate

  ------------- ---------------------
  **Measure**   **Requirement**
  WMOPS         Less than 39
  ROM size      Less than 34 kwords
  RAM size      Less than 8 kwords
  ------------- ---------------------

**Table 2: complexity and memory requirements for codec supporting 16
kHz sampling rate** The definition of the wMOPS measure and
recommendations on how to estimate the computation and memory
requirements can be found in ETSI Technical document \[2\]. A word is
defined as 16bits. These complexity measures are for the front-end
feature extraction and compression and the VAD.

ROM does not include program ROM.

Latency
=======

The maximum codec latency requirement is 200ms, with the objective of 50
ms. This values contains the algorthmic delay introduced by the codec.

Data rate for the source codec
==============================

#### Voice enabled services need to be able to operate over a variety of channels. The following channels and datarates will at least be supported

#### a) For conversational class of service \[4\]:

-   The GPRS single slot uplink (Coding scheme CS-1) channel.\
    Here the maximum source data rate is 5.6 kbit/sec.

-   The EGPRS single slot uplink (Coding scheme MCS -1) channel.\
    Here the maximum source data rate is 6.4 kbit/sec.

-   The Flexible Layer 1 (FLO) channel. Here the maximum data rate is
    expected to be between 6.4 and 8.4 kbit/sec.

-   For UTRAN packet data channel the maximum source datarate is 24
    kbit/sec.

It is assumed one 20ms frame within one RLC/MAC block.

b\) For streaming and interactive class of service\_

-   For GPRS / EGPRS single slot uplink channel the maximum source
    datarate is 8 kbit/sec (assuming 10 frames per IP packet) or 7.5
    kbit/sec (assuming 5 frames per IP packet) .

-   For UTRAN packet data channel the maximum source datarate is 24
    kbit/sec.

I

1.  ETSI SMG11 Tdoc SMG11 117/99, "Complexity verification report of the
    AMR codec, v2.0", Alcatel, Philips, ST Microelectronics, Texas
    Instruments\".

2.  ETSI SMG11 AMR-9 \"AMR permanent document (AMR-9) Complexity and
    delay assessment v1.0\", 23rd March 1998

3.  IETF RFC 3095: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Framework and
    four profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP, and uncompressed\".

4.  S4-030114.doc , TSG SA WG4 , Berlin, Germany, 24. --28.Feb 2003
