![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1097222222222223in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[4](#introduction)

[6](#scope)

[7](#normative-section)

[8](#outline-of-the-normative-part)

[8](#references)

[9](#introductory-information)

[9](#introduction-1)

[9](#notation)

[9](#radix)

[9](#conventions)

[9](#bitbyte-ordering)

[10](#list-of-symbols)

[10](#list-of-variables)

[11](#confidentiality-algorithm-f8)

[11](#introduction-2)

[11](#inputs-and-outputs)

[11](#components-and-architecture)

[11](#initialisation)

[12](#keystream-generation)

[12](#encryptiondecryption)

[12](#integrity-algorithm-f9)

[12](#introduction-3)

[12](#inputs-and-outputs-1)

[13](#components-and-architecture-1)

[13](#initialisation-1)

[13](#calculation)

[15](#informative-section)

[16](#annex-1-informative-figures-of-the-f8-and-f9-algorithms)

[18](#annex-2-informative-simulation-program-listing)

[22](#annex-3-informative-change-history)Foreword Introduction 0 Scope
NORMATIVE SECTION 1 Outline of the normative part 1.1 References 2
Introductory information 2.1 Introduction 2.2 Notation 2.2.1 Radix 2.2.2
Conventions 2.2.3 Bit/Byte ordering 2.2.4 List of Symbols 2.3 List of
Variables 3 Confidentiality algorithm *f8* 3.1 Introduction 3.2 Inputs
and Outputs 3.3 Components and Architecture 3.4 Initialisation 3.5
Keystream Generation 3.6 Encryption/Decryption 4 Integrity algorithm
*f9* 4.1 Introduction 4.2 Inputs and Outputs 4.3 Components and
Architecture 4.4 Initialisation 4.5 Calculation INFORMATIVE SECTION
Annex 1 (informative): Figures of the *f8* and *f9* Algorithms Annex 2
(informative): Simulation Program Listing Annex 3 (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms f8 & f9 have been
developed through the collaborative efforts of the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), the Association of Radio
Industries and Businesses (ARIB), the Telecommunications Technology
Association (TTA), the T1 Committee.

The f8 & f9 Algorithms Specifications may be used only for the
development and operation of 3G Mobile Communications and services.
Every Beneficiary must sign a Restricted Usage Undertaking with the
Custodian and demonstrate that he fulfills the approval criteria
specified in the Restricted Usage Undertaking.

Furthermore, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation holds essential patents on
the Algorithms. The Beneficiary must get a separate IPR License
Agreement from Mitsubishi Electronic Corporation Japan.

For details of licensing procedures, contact ETSI, ARIB, TTA or T1.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

This specification has been prepared by the 3GPP Task Force, and gives a
detailed specification of the 3GPP confidentiality algorithm ***f8***,
and the 3GPP integrity algorithm ***f9***.

This document is the first of four, which between them form the entire
specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms:

\- **3GPP TS 35.201: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security;
Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms;
Document 1: *f8* and *f9* Specification\".**

\- 3GPP TS 35.202: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security;
Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms;
Document 2: KASUMI Specification\".

\- 3GPP TS 35.203: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security;
Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms;
Document 3: Implementors' Test Data\".

\- 3GPP TS 35.204: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security;
Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms;
Document 4: Design Conformance Test Data\".

The normative part of the specification of the ***f8***
(confidentiality) and ***f9*** (integrity) algorithms is in the main
body of this document. The annexes to this document are purely
informative. Annex 1 contains illustrations of functional elements of
the algorithm, while Annex 2 contains an implementation program listing
of the cryptographic algorithm specified in the main body of this
document, written in the programming language C.

The normative part of the specification of the block cipher (**KASUMI)**
on which they are based is in the main body of Document 2. The annexes
of that document, and Documents 3 and 4 above, are purely informative.

0 Scope
=======

This specification gives a detailed specification of the 3GPP
confidentiality algorithm ***f8***, and the 3GPP integrity algorithm
***f9***.

NORMATIVE SECTION
=================

This part of the document contains the normative specification of the
Confidentiality and Integrity algorithms.

1 Outline of the normative part
===============================

Section 1 introduces the algorithms and describes the notation used in
the subsequent sections.

Section 3 specifies the confidentiality algorithm ***f8***.

Section 4 specifies the integrity algorithm ***f9***.

1.1 References
--------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 33.102 version 3.2.0: \"3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G
Security; Security Architecture\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 33.105 version 3.1.0: \"3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G
Security; Cryptographic Algorithm Requirements\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 35.201: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security;
Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms;
Document 1: f8 and f9 Specification\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 35.202: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security;
Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms;
Document 2: KASUMI Specification\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 35.203: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security;
Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms;
Document 3: Implementors' Test Data\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 35.204: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security;
Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity Algorithms;
Document 4: Design Conformance Test Data\".

\[7\] ISO/IEC 9797-1:1999: \"Information technology -- Security
techniques -- Message Authentication Codes (MACs)\".

2 Introductory information
==========================

2.1 Introduction
----------------

Within the security architecture of the 3GPP system there are two
standardised algorithms: A confidentiality algorithm ***f8***, and an
integrity algorithm ***f9***. These algorithms are fully specified here.
Each of these algorithms is based on the **KASUMI** algorithm that is
specified in a companion document\[4\]. **KASUMI** is a block cipher
that produces a 64-bit output from a 64-bit input under the control of a
128-bit key.

The confidentiality algorithm ***f8*** is a stream cipher that is used
to encrypt/decrypt blocks of data under a confidentiality key **CK**.
The block of data may be between 1 and 20000 bits long. The algorithm
uses **KASUMI** in a form of output-feedback mode as a keystream
generator.

The integrity algorithm ***f9*** computes a 32-bit MAC (Message
Authentication Code) of a given input message using an integrity key
**IK.** The approach adopted uses **KASUMI** in a form of CBC-MAC mode.

2.2 Notation
------------

### 2.2.1 Radix

We use the prefix **0x** to indicate **hexadecimal** numbers.

### 2.2.2 Conventions

We use the assignment operator '=', as used in several programming
languages. When we write

\<variable\> = \<expression\>

we mean that \<*variable*\> assumes the value that \<*expression*\> had
before the assignment took place. For instance,

*x* = *x* + *y* + 3

means

(new value of *x*) becomes (old value of *x*) + (old value of *y*) + 3.

### 2.2.3 Bit/Byte ordering

All data variables in this specification are presented with the most
significant bit (or byte) on the left hand side and the least
significant bit (or byte) on the right hand side. Where a variable is
broken down into a number of sub-strings, the left most (most
significant) sub-string is numbered 0, the next most significant is
numbered 1 and so on through to the least significant.

For example an n-bit **MESSAGE** is subdivided into 64-bit substrings
**MB~0~,MB~1~...MB~i~** so if we have a message:

0x0123456789ABCDEFFEDCBA987654321086545381AB594FC28786404C50A37...

we have:

**MB~0~** = 0x0123456789ABCDEF\
**MB~1~ =** 0xFEDCBA9876543210\
**MB~2~** = 0x86545381AB594FC2\
**MB~3~** = 0x8786404C50A37...

In binary this would be:

000000010010001101000101011001111000100110101011110011011110111111111110...

with **MB~0~** =
0000000100100011010001010110011110001001101010111100110111101111\
**MB~1~ =**
1111111011011100101110101001100001110110010101000011001000010000\
**MB~2~** =
1000011001010100010100111000000110101011010110010100111111000010\
**MB~3~** = 1000011110000110010000000100110001010000101000110111...

### 2.2.4 List of Symbols

= The assignment operator.

⊕ The bitwise exclusive-OR operation.

\|\| The concatenation of the two operands.

KASUMI\[x\]~k~ The output of the **KASUMI** algorithm applied to input
value **x\
**using the key **k**.

X\[i\] The i^th^ bit of the variable **X**. (**X = X\[0\] \|\| X\[1\]
\|\| X\[2\] \|\| .....** ).

Y~i~ The i^th^ block of the variable **Y**. **(Y = Y~0~ \|\| Y~1~ \|\|
Y~2~ \|\| .... )**.

2.3 List of Variables
---------------------

A, B are 64-bit registers that are used within the ***f8*** and ***f9***
functions to hold intermediate values.

BEARER a 5-bit input to the ***f8*** function.

BLKCNT a 64-bit counter used in the ***f8*** function.

BLOCKS an integer variable indicating the number of successive
applications of **KASUMI** that need to be performed, for both the
***f8*** and ***f9*** functions.

CK a 128-bit confidentiality key.

COUNT a 32-bit time variant input to both the ***f8*** and ***f9***
functions.

DIRECTION a 1-bit input to both the ***f8*** and ***f9*** functions
indicating the direction of transmission (uplink or downlink).

FRESH a 32-bit random input to the ***f9*** function.

IBS the input bit stream to the ***f8*** function.

IK a 128-bit integrity key.

KM a 128-bit constant that is used to modify a key. This is used in both
the ***f8*** and ***f9*** functions. (It takes a different value in each
function).

KS\[i\] is the i^th^ bit of keystream produced by the keystream
generator.

KSB~i~ is the i^th^ block of keystream produced by the keystream
generator. Each block of keystream comprises 64 bits.

LENGTH is an input to the ***f8*** and ***f9*** functions. It specifies
the number of bits in the input bitstream.

MAC-I is the 32-bit message authentication code (MAC) produced by the
integrity function ***f9***.

MESSAGE is the input bitstream of LENGTH bits that is to be processed by
the ***f9*** function.

OBS the output bit streams from the ***f8*** function.

PS is the input padded string processed by the ***f9*** function.

REGISTER is a 64-bit value that is used within the ***f8*** function.

3 Confidentiality algorithm *f8*
================================

3.1 Introduction
----------------

The confidentiality algorithm ***f8*** is a stream cipher that
encrypts/decrypts blocks of data between 1 and 20000 bits in length.

3.2 Inputs and Outputs
----------------------

The inputs to the algorithm are given in table 1, the output in table 2:

Table 1: *f8* inputs

  ----------- ------------- ------------------------------------------------
  Parameter   Size (bits)   Comment

  COUNT       32            Frame dependent input COUNT\[0\]...COUNT\[31\]

  BEARER      5             Bearer identity BEARER\[0\]...BEARER\[4\]

  DIRECTION   1             Direction of transmission DIRECTION\[0\]

  CK          128           Confidentiality key CK\[0\]....CK\[127\]

  LENGTH      X18[^1]       The number of bits to be encrypted/decrypted\
                            (1-20000)

  IBS         1-20000       Input bit stream IBS\[0\]....IBS\[LENGTH-1\]
  ----------- ------------- ------------------------------------------------

Table 2: *f8* output

  ----------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------
  Parameter   Size (bits)   Comment
  OBS         1-20000       Output bit stream OBS\[0\]....OBS\[LENGTH-1\]
  ----------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------

3.3 Components and Architecture
-------------------------------

(See fig 1 Annex A)

The keystream generator is based on the block cipher **KASUMI** that is
specified in \[4\]. **KASUMI** is used in a form of output-feedback mode
and generates the output keystream in multiples of 64-bits.

The feedback data is modified by static data held in a 64-bit register
**A**, and an (incrementing) 64-bit counter **BLKCNT**.

3.4 Initialisation
------------------

In this section we define how the keystream generator is initialised
with the key variables before the generation of keystream bits.

We set the 64-bit register **A** to **COUNT \|\| BEARER \|\| DIRECTION
\|\| 0...0**

(left justified with the right most 26 bits set to 0).

i.e. **A = COUNT\[0\]...COUNT\[31\] BEARER\[0\]...BEARER\[4\]
DIRECTION\[0\] 0...0**

We set counter **BLKCNT** to zero.

We set the key modifier **KM** to 0x55555555555555555555555555555555

We set **KSB~0~** to zero.

One operation of **KASUMI** is then applied to the register **A**, using
a modified version of the confidentiality key.

**A = KASUMI\[ A \]~CK\ ⊕\ KM~**

3.5 Keystream Generation
------------------------

Once the keystream generator has been initialised in the manner defined
in section 3.4, it is ready to be used to generate keystream bits. The
plaintext/ciphertext to be encrypted/decrypted consists of **LENGTH**
bits (1-20000) whilst the keystream generator produces keystream bits in
multiples of 64 bits. Between 0 and 63 of the least significant bits are
discarded from the last block depending on the total number of bits
required by **LENGTH**.

So let **BLOCKS** be equal to (**LENGTH**/64) rounded up to the nearest
integer. (For instance, if **LENGTH** = 128 then **BLOCKS** = 2; if
**LENGTH** = 129 then **BLOCKS** = 3.)

To generate each keystream block (**KSB**) we perform the following
operation:

For each integer **n** with 1 ≤ **n** ≤ **BLOCKS** we define:

**KSB~n~ = KASUMI\[ A ⊕ BLKCNT ⊕ KSB~n-1~\]~CK~**

where BLKCNT = n-1

The individual bits of the keystream are extracted from **KSB~1~** to
**KSB~BLOCKS~** in turn, most significant bit first, by applying the
operation:

For **n** = 1 to **BLOCKS**, and for each integer ***i*** with 0 ≤
***i*** ≤ 63 we define:

**KS\[((n-1)\*64)+i\] = KSB~n~\[i\]**

3.6 Encryption/Decryption
-------------------------

Encryption/decryption operations are identical and are performed by the
exclusive-OR of the input data (IBS) with the generated keystream (KS).

For each integer ***i*** with 0 ≤ ***i*** ≤ **LENGTH-1** we define:

**OBS\[*i*\] = IBS\[*i*\] ⊕ KS\[*i*\]**

4 Integrity algorithm *f9*
==========================

4.1 Introduction
----------------

The integrity algorithm ***f9*** computes a Message Authentication Code
(MAC) on an input message under an integrity key **IK**. There is no
limitation on the input message length of the f9 algorithm.

For ease of implementation the algorithm is based on the same block
cipher (**KASUMI**) as is used by the confidentiality algorithm
***f8***.

4.2 Inputs and Outputs
----------------------

The inputs to the algorithm are given in table 3, the output in table 4:

Table 3: *f9* inputs

  ----------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  Parameter   Size (bits)   Comment
  COUNT-I     32            Frame dependent input COUNT-I\[0\]...COUNT-I\[31\]
  FRESH       32            Random number FRESH\[0\]...FRESH\[31\]
  DIRECTION   1             Direction of transmission DIRECTION\[0\]
  IK          128           Integrity key IK\[0\]...IK\[127\]
  LENGTH      X19[^2]       The number of bits to be 'MAC'd
  MESSAGE     LENGTH        Input bit stream
  ----------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------

Table 4: *f9* output

  ----------- ------------- ------------------------------------------------------
  Parameter   Size (bits)   Comment
  MAC-I       32            Message authentication code MAC-I\[0\]...MAC-I\[31\]
  ----------- ------------- ------------------------------------------------------

4.3 Components and Architecture
-------------------------------

(See fig 2 Annex A)

The integrity function is based on the block cipher **KASUMI** that is
specified in \[4\]. **KASUMI** is used in a chained mode to generate a
64-bit digest of the message input. Finally the leftmost 32-bits of the
digest are taken as the output value **MAC-I**.

4.4 Initialisation
------------------

In this section we define how the integrity function is initialised with
the key variables before the calculation commences.

We set the working variables: **A = 0\
**and **B = 0**

We set the key modifier **KM** to 0xAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

We concatenate **COUNT**, **FRESH**, **MESSAGE** and **DIRECTION**. We
then append a single '1' bit, followed by between 0 and 63 '0' bits so
that the total length of the resulting string **PS** (padded string) is
an integral multiple of 64 bits, i.e.:

**PS = COUNT\[0\]...COUNT\[31\] FRESH\[0\]...FRESH\[31\] MESSAGE\[0\]...
MESSAGE\[LENGTH-1\] DIRECTION\[0\] 1 0^\*^**

Where 0^\*^ indicates between 0 and 63 '0' bits.

4.5 Calculation
---------------

We split the padded string **PS** into 64-bit blocks **PS**~i~ where:

**PS = PS~0~ \|\| PS~1~ \|\| PS~2~ \|\| .... \|\| PS~BLOCKS-1~**

We perform the following operations for each integer **n** with 0 ≤
**n** ≤ **BLOCKS-1**:

**A = KASUMI\[ A ⊕ PS~n~ \]~IK~**

**B = B ⊕ A**

Finally we perform one more application of **KASUMI** using a modified
form of the integrity key **IK**.

**B = KASUMI\[ B \]~IK\ ⊕\ KM~**

The 32-bit **MAC-I** comprises the left-most 32 bits of the result.

**MAC-I = lefthalf\[ B \]**

i.e. For each integer ***i*** with 0 ≤ ***i*** ≤ **31** we define:

**MAC-I\[*i*\] = B\[*i*\].**

Bits **B\[32\]...B\[63\]** are discarded.

INFORMATIVE SECTION
===================

This part of the document is purely informative and does not form part
of the normative specification of KASUMI.

######## Annex 1 (informative): Figures of the *f8* and *f9* Algorithms

![](media/image3.wmf){width="6.458333333333333in"
height="4.145833333333333in"}

Figure 1: *f8* Keystream Generator

Note: **BLKCNT** is specified as a 64-bit counter so there is no
ambiguity in the expression**\
A ⊕ BLKCNT ⊕ KSB~n-1~** where all operands are of the same size. In a
practical implementation where the key stream generator is required to
produce no more than 5114 bits (80 keystream blocks) only the least
significant 7 bits of the counter need to be realised.

![](media/image4.wmf){width="5.895833333333333in"
height="4.302083333333333in"}

Figure 2: *f9* Integrity function

######## Annex 2 (informative): Simulation Program Listing

**Header file**

/\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\* Kasumi.h

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\*/

typedef unsigned char u8;

typedef unsigned short u16;

typedef unsigned long u32;

/\*\-\-\-\-- a 64-bit structure to help with endian issues \-\-\-\--\*/

typedef union {

u32 b32\[2\];

u16 b16\[4\];

u8 b8\[8\];

} REGISTER64;

/\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-- prototypes
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\*/

void KeySchedule( u8 \*key );

void Kasumi( u8 \*data );

u8 \* f9( u8 \*key,int count,int fresh, int dir,u8 \*data,int length );

void f8( u8 \*key,int count,int bearer,int dir,u8 \*data,int length );

**Function *f8***

/\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\* F8 - Confidentiality Algorithm

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\*

\* A sample implementation of f8, the 3GPP Confidentiality algorithm.

\*

\* This has been coded for clarity, not necessarily for efficiency.

\*

\* This will compile and run correctly on both Intel (little endian)

\* and Sparc (big endian) machines. (Compilers used supported 32-bit
ints)

\*

\* Version 1.0 05 November 1999

\*

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\*/

\#include \"kasumi.h\"

\#include \<stdio.h\>

/\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\* f8()

\* Given key, count, bearer, direction, data,

\* and bit length encrypt the bit stream

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\*/

void f8( u8 \*key, int count, int bearer, int dir, u8 \*data, int length
)

{

REGISTER64 A; /\* the modifier \*/

REGISTER64 temp; /\* The working register \*/

int i, n;

u8 ModKey\[16\]; /\* Modified key \*/

u16 blkcnt; /\* The block counter \*/

/\* Start by building our global modifier \*/

temp.b32\[0\] = temp.b32\[1\] = 0;

A.b32\[0\] = A.b32\[1\] = 0;

/\* initialise register in an endian correct manner\*/

A.b8\[0\] = (u8) (count\>\>24);

A.b8\[1\] = (u8) (count\>\>16);

A.b8\[2\] = (u8) (count\>\>8);

A.b8\[3\] = (u8) (count);

A.b8\[4\] = (u8) (bearer\<\<3);

A.b8\[4\] \|= (u8) (dir\<\<2);

/\* Construct the modified key and then \"kasumi\" A \*/

for( n=0; n\<16; ++n )

ModKey\[n\] = (u8)(key\[n\] \^ 0x55);

KeySchedule( ModKey );

Kasumi( A.b8 ); /\* First encryption to create modifier \*/

/\* Final initialisation steps \*/

blkcnt = 0;

KeySchedule( key );

/\* Now run the block cipher \*/

while( length \> 0 )

{

/\* First we calculate the next 64-bits of keystream \*/

/\* XOR in A and BLKCNT to last value \*/

temp.b32\[0\] \^= A.b32\[0\];

temp.b32\[1\] \^= A.b32\[1\];

temp.b8\[7\] \^= (u8) blkcnt;

temp.b8\[6\] \^= (u8) (blkcnt\>\>8);

/\* KASUMI it to produce the next block of keystream \*/

Kasumi( temp.b8 );

/\* Set \<n\> to the number of bytes of input data \*

\* we have to modify. (=8 if length \<= 64) \*/

if( length \>= 64 )

n = 8;

else

n = (length+7)/8;

/\* XOR the keystream with the input data stream \*/

for( i=0; i\<n; ++i )

\*data++ \^= temp.b8\[i\];

length -= 64; /\* done another 64 bits \*/

++blkcnt; /\* increment BLKCNT \*/

}

}

/\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\* e n d o f f 8 . c

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\*/

**Function *f9***

/\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\* F9 - Integrity Algorithm

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\*

\* A sample implementation of f9, the 3GPP Integrity algorithm.

\*

\* This has been coded for clarity, not necessarily for efficiency.

\*

\* This will compile and run correctly on both Intel (little endian)

\* and Sparc (big endian) machines. (Compilers used supported 32-bit
ints)

\*

\* Version 1.1 05 September 2000

\*

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\*/

\#include \"kasumi.h\"

\#include \<stdio.h\>

/\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\* f9()

\* Given key, count, fresh, direction, data,

\* and message length, calculate the hash value

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\*/

u8 \*f9( u8 \*key, int count, int fresh, int dir, u8 \*data, int length
)

{

REGISTER64 A; /\* Holds the CBC chained data \*/

REGISTER64 B; /\* Holds the XOR of all KASUMI outputs \*/

u8 FinalBit\[8\] = {0x80, 0x40, 0x20, 0x10, 8,4,2,1};

u8 ModKey\[16\];

static u8 mac\_i\[4\]; /\* static memory for the result \*/

int i, n;

/\* Start by initialising the block cipher \*/

KeySchedule( key );

/\* Next initialise the MAC chain. Make sure we \*

\* have the data in the right byte order. \*

\* \<A\> holds our chaining value\... \*

\* \<B\> is the running XOR of all KASUMI o/ps \*/

for( n=0; n\<4; ++n )

{

A.b8\[n\] = (u8)(count\>\>(24-(n\*8)));

A.b8\[n+4\] = (u8)(fresh\>\>(24-(n\*8)));

}

Kasumi( A.b8 );

B.b32\[0\] = A.b32\[0\];

B.b32\[1\] = A.b32\[1\];

/\* Now run the blocks until we reach the last block \*/

while( length \>= 64 )

{

for( n=0; n\<8; ++n )

A.b8\[n\] \^= \*data++;

Kasumi( A.b8 );

length -= 64;

B.b32\[0\] \^= A.b32\[0\]; /\* running XOR across \*/

B.b32\[1\] \^= A.b32\[1\]; /\* the block outputs \*/

}

/\* Process whole bytes in the last block \*/

n = 0;

while( length \>=8 )

{

A.b8\[n++\] \^= \*data++;

length -= 8;

}

/\* Now add the direction bit to the input bit stream \*

\* If length (which holds the \# of data bits in the \*

\* last byte) is non-zero we add it in, otherwise \*

\* it has to start a new byte. \*/

if( length )

{

i = \*data;

if( dir )

i \|= FinalBit\[length\];

}

else

i = dir ? 0x80 : 0;

A.b8\[n++\] \^= (u8)i;

/\* Now add in the final \'1\' bit. The problem here \*

\* is if the message length happens to be n\*64-1. \*

\* If so we need to process this block and then \*

\* create a new input block of 0x8000000000000000. \*/

if( (length==7) && (n==8 ) ) /\* then we\'ve filled the block \*/

{

Kasumi( A.b8 );

B.b32\[0\] \^= A.b32\[0\]; /\* running XOR across \*/

B.b32\[1\] \^= A.b32\[1\]; /\* the block outputs \*/

A.b8\[0\] \^= 0x80; /\* toggle first bit \*/

i = 0x80;

n = 1;

}

else

{

if( length == 7 ) /\* we finished off the last byte \*/

A.b8\[n\] \^= 0x80; /\* so start a new one\..... \*/

else

A.b8\[n-1\] \^= FinalBit\[length+1\];

}

Kasumi( A.b8 );

B.b32\[0\] \^= A.b32\[0\]; /\* running XOR across \*/

B.b32\[1\] \^= A.b32\[1\]; /\* the block outputs \*/

/\* Final step is to KASUMI what we have using the \*

\* key XORd with 0xAAAA\..... \*/

for( n=0; n\<16; ++n )

ModKey\[n\] = (u8)\*key++ \^ 0xAA;

KeySchedule( ModKey );

Kasumi( B.b8 );

/\* We return the left-most 32-bits of the result \*/

for( n=0; n\<4; ++n )

mac\_i\[n\] = B.b8\[n\];

return( mac\_i );

}

/\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\* e n d o f f 9 . c

\*\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\*/

######## Annex 3 (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                               

  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                              **Old**     **New**

  12-1999              \-           \-             \-       \-        ETSI SAGE Publication (restricted)                                                                                               \-          SAGE v1.0

  05-2000              \-           \-             \-       \-        ETSI SAGE update: Small change to sample code (16-bit portability issue)                                                         SAGE v1.0   SAGE v1.1

  09-2000              \-           \-             \-       \-        ETSI SAGE update: Small change to sample f9 code (boundary condition)                                                            SAGE v1.1   SAGE v1.2

  09-2000              SA\_07                                         Approved by TSG SA and placed under change control                                                                               SAGE v1.2   3.1.0

  07-2001              \-           \-             \-       \-        Word version received: Re-formatted into 3GPP TS format (MCC)\                                                                   3.1.0       3.1.1
                                                                      No technical change from version 3.1.0.                                                                                                      

  08-2001              \-                                             Addition of Mitsubishi IPR information in Foreword and correction of reference titles. No technical change from version 3.1.0.   3.1.1       3.1.2

  08-2001              \-           \-             \-       \-        Release 4 version created.                                                                                                       3.1.2       4.0.0

  12-2001              SP-14        SP-010620      002                Correct the maximum input message length for f8 and f9                                                                           4.0.0       4.1.0

  06-2002              SP-16        \-             \-       \-        Upgrade to Release 5                                                                                                             4.1.0       5.0.0

  12-2004              SP-26        \-             \-       \-        Upgrade to Release 6                                                                                                             5.0.0       6.0.0

  2005-09              SP-29        SP-050563      0003     \-        Correction of sample code                                                                                                        6.0.0       6.1.0

  06-2007              SP-36        \-             \-       \-        Upgrade to Release 7                                                                                                             6.1.0       7.0.0

  12-2008              SP-42        \--            \-       \-        Upgrade to Release 8                                                                                                             7.0.0       8.0.0

  2009-12              \-           \-             \-       \-        Upgrade to Release 9                                                                                                             8.0.0       9.0.0

  2011-03              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                                                                                   9.0.0       10.0.0

  2012-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                                                                                   10.0.0      **11.0.0**

  2014-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                                                                                   11.0.0      **12.0.0**

  2016-01              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                                                                                   12.0.0      **13.0.0**

  2017-03              SA\#75       \-             \-       \-        Promotion to Release 14 without technical change                                                                                 13.0.0      **14.0.0**

  2018-06              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                                                                                   14.0.0      **15.0.0**

  2020-07              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                                                                   15.0.0      **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------------

[^1]: In the sample C-code we treat LENGTH as a 32-bit integer.

[^2]: In the sample C-code we treat LENGTH as a 32-bit integer.
