+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 3GPP TS 37.114 V16.1.0 (2023-03) |                                  |
+==================================+==================================+
| Technical Specification          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 3rd Generation Partnership       |                                  |
| Project;                         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Technical Specification Group    |                                  |
| Radio Access Network;            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Active Antenna System (AAS) Base |                                  |
| Station (BS)                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Electromagnetic Compatibility    |                                  |
| (EMC)                            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| (Release 16)                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| !                                | ![3GPP-logo\_web](media/image2.p |
| [5G-logo\_175px](media/image1.jp | ng){width="1.7708333333333333in" |
| eg){width="1.3229166666666667in" | height="1.0416666666666667in"}   |
| height="0.9166666666666666in"}   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| The present document has been    |                                  |
| developed within the 3rd         |                                  |
| Generation Partnership Project   |                                  |
| (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further   |                                  |
| elaborated for the purposes of   |                                  |
| 3GPP.\                           |                                  |
| The present document has not     |                                  |
| been subject to any approval     |                                  |
| process by the 3GPP              |                                  |
| Organizational Partners and      |                                  |
| shall not be implemented.\       |                                  |
| This Specification is provided   |                                  |
| for future development work      |                                  |
| within 3GPP only. The            |                                  |
| Organizational Partners accept   |                                  |
| no liability for any use of this |                                  |
| Specification.\                  |                                  |
| Specifications and Reports for   |                                  |
| implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^  |                                  |
| system should be obtained via    |                                  |
| the 3GPP Organizational          |                                  |
| Partners\' Publications Offices. |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                      |
+======================================================================+
| > ***3GPP***                                                         |
| >                                                                    |
| > Postal address                                                     |
| >                                                                    |
| > 3GPP support office address                                        |
| >                                                                    |
| > 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis                          |
| >                                                                    |
| > Valbonne - FRANCE                                                  |
| >                                                                    |
| > Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16                     |
| >                                                                    |
| > Internet                                                           |
| >                                                                    |
| > http://www.3gpp.org                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ***Copyright Notification***                                         |
|                                                                      |
| No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written            |
| permission.\                                                         |
| The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction   |
| in all media.                                                        |
|                                                                      |
| © 223, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,  |
| TTA, TTC).                                                           |
|                                                                      |
| All rights reserved.                                                 |
|                                                                      |
| UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its      |
| members                                                              |
|                                                                      |
| 3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its      |
| Members and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\                     |
| LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its       |
| Members and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners                      |
|                                                                      |
| GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM            |
| Association                                                          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 4

1 Scope 6

2 References 6

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 8

3.1 Definitions 8

3.2 Symbols 10

3.3 Abbreviations 10

4 Test conditions 11

4.1 Exclusion bands 12

4.1.1 Transmitter exclusion band 12

4.1.2 Receiver exclusion band 12

4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link 13

4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers 13

4.4 BS test configurations 13

5 Performance assessment 17

5.1 General 17

5.2 Assessment of performance in Downlink 17

5.3 Assessment of performance in Uplink 18

6 Performance criteria 18

7 Applicability overview 19

7.1 Emission 19

7.2 Immunity 19

8 Emission 19

8.1 Test configurations 19

8.2 Radiated emission from base station 20

8.2.1 Radiated emission, hybrid AAS BS 20

8.2.2 Radiated emission, OTA AAS BS 20

8.3 Conducted emissions, DC power input/output port 21

8.4 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port 21

8.5 Harmonic current emissions (AC mains input port) 21

8.6 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port) 21

8.7 Conducted emissions, telecommunication ports 21

9 Immunity 22

9.1 Test configurations 22

9.2 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz - 6000 MHz) 23

9.2.1 RF electromagnetic field, hybrid AAS BS 23

9.2.2 RF electromagnetic field, OTA AAS BS 23

9.3 Electrostatic discharge 24

9.4 Fast transients common mode 24

9.5 RF common mode (0.15 MHz - 80 MHz) 25

9.6 Voltage dips and interruptions 25

9.7 Surges, common and differential mode 25

Annex A (informative): Change history 26

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document covers the assessment of UTRA TDD, UTRA FDD,
E-UTRA, NR and Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Active Antenna Systems Base
Stations in respect of Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC).

NOTE 1: Whenever the AAS BS in *single RAT UTRA operation*, or AAS BS in
*MSR operation* using UTRA is referred in this specification, UTRA TDD
and UTRA FDD shall be considered, unless otherwise stated.

NOTE 2: For NR, scope of this specification is limited to *BS type 1-H*
and *BS type 1-O*. For EMC requirements of the MSR BS for *BS type 1-C*,
refer to TS 37.113 \[4\].

The present document specifies the applicable test conditions,
performance assessment and performance criteria for base stations in the
following categories:

\- Active Antenna System Base Station for UTRA TDD, UTRA FDD, E-UTRA, NR
and MSR meeting the conducted requirements of TS 37.105 \[2\], with
conformance demonstrated by compliance to TS 37.145-1 \[3\],

\- Active Antenna System Base Station for UTRA FDD, E-UTRA, NR and MSR
meeting the OTA requirements of 3TS 37.105 \[2\], with conformance
demonstrated by compliance to TS 37.145-2 \[10\].

Technical requirements related to the TAB connector are not included in
the present document. These are found in the relevant product standards
\[2, 3, 10\].

The present document does not cover ancillary equipment requirements,
where ancillary equipment is not incorporated in the radio equipment and
can be assessed on a stand-alone basis, as declared by the manufacturer.
Ancillary equipment EMC requirements are still applicable to the AAS BS
and are covered by other EMC specifications in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS
36.113 \[6\], TS 37.113 \[4\] or TS 38.113 \[30\].

The present document does not specify test conditions, performance
assessment and performance criteria for the Narrow-Band Internet of
Things (NB-IoT) in band, NB-IoT guard band, or standalone NB-IoT
operation, for AAS BS in *single RAT E-UTRA operation* as defined in TS
36.113 \[6\], or for AAS BS in *MSR operation* using E-UTRA as defined
in TS 37.113 \[4\].

The present document does not specify test conditions, performance
assessment and performance criteria for Band 46 operation as it is not
supported by AAS BS.

The scope of the present document is twofold:

\- Requirement, procedures and values of a *hybrid AAS BS* with *TAB
connectors* for every transceiver unit at the *transceiver array
boundary* (TAB), subject to conducted requirements,

NOTE 3: *hybrid AAS BS* in the single RAT NR operation is equivalent to
*BS type 1-H* defined in NR BS specification TS 38.104 \[31\].

\- Requirements, procedures and values of an OTA AAS BS without *TAB
connectors* and relying in the radiated interface, subject to radiated
requirements.

NOTE 4: OTA AAS BS in the single RAT NR operation is equivalent to *BS
type 1-O* defined in NR BS specification TS 38.104 \[31\].

The electromagnetic environment classification used in the present
document refers to the residential, commercial and light industrial
environment classification used in IEC 61000‑6-1 \[7\] and IEC 61000-6-3
\[8\].

The EMC requirements have been selected to ensure an adequate level of
compatibility for apparatus at residential, commercial and light
industrial environments. The levels, however, do not cover extreme cases
which may occur in any location but with low probability of occurrence.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 37.105: \"Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS)
transmission and reception\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 37.145-1: \"Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS)
conformance testing; Part 1: Conducted conformance testing\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 37.113: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio
(MSR) Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 25.113: \"Base Station (BS) and repeater ElectroMagnetic
Compatibility (EMC)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 36.113: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) and repeater ElectroMagnetic Compatibility
(EMC)\".

\[7\] IEC 61000-6-1: 2016: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
6-1: Generic standards - Immunity standard for residential, commercial
and light-industrial environments\".

\[8\] IEC 61000-6-3: 2006/AMD1:2010: \"Electromagnetic compatibility
(EMC) - Part 6-3: Generic standards - Emission standard for residential,
commercial and light-industrial environments\".

\[9\] Void.

\[10\] 3GPP TS 37.145-2: \"Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS)
conformance testing; Part 2: radiated conformance testing\".

\[11\] IEC 61000-3-2: 2014: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
3-2: Limits - Limits for harmonic current emissions (equipment input
current ≤ 16 A per phase)\".

\[12\] IEC 61000-3-3: 2013: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
3-3: Limits - Limitation of voltage changes, voltage fluctuations and
flicker in public low-voltage supply systems, for equipment with rated
current ≤ 16 A per phase and not subject to conditional connection\".

\[13\] IEC 61000-3-11: 2017 \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
3-11: Limits - Limitation of voltage changes, voltage fluctuations and
flicker in public low-voltage supply systems - Equipment with rated
current ≤ 75 A and subject to conditional connection\".

\[14\] IEC 61000-3-12: 2011: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) -
Part 3-12: Limits - Limits for harmonic currents produced by equipment
connected to public low-voltage systems with input current \>16 A and ≤
75 A per phase\".

\[15\] IEC 61000-4-2: 2008: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
4-2: Testing and measurement techniques - Electrostatic discharge
immunity test\".

\[16\] IEC 61000-4-3: 2006+AMD1:2007+AMD2:2010: \"Electromagnetic
compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-3: Testing and measurement techniques -
Radiated, radio-frequency, electromagnetic field immunity test\".

\[17\] IEC 61000-4-4: 2012: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) --
Part 4-4: Testing and measurement techniques -- Electrical fast
transient/burst immunity test\".

\[18\] IEC 61000-4-5: 2014+AMD1:2017: \"Electromagnetic compatibility
(EMC) - Part 4-5: Testing and measurement techniques - Surge immunity
test\".

\[19\] IEC 61000-4-6: 2013: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
4-6: Testing and measurement techniques - Immunity to conducted
disturbances, induced by radio-frequency fields\".

\[20\] IEC 61000-4-11: 2004+AMD1:2017: \"Electromagnetic compatibility
(EMC) - Part 4-11: Testing and measurement techniques - Voltage dips,
short interruptions and voltage variations immunity tests\".

\[21\] ETSI EN 301 489-1: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio
spectrum Matters (ERM); ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC) standard for
radio equipment and services; Part 1: Common technical requirements\".

\[22\] Void

\[23\] Void

\[24\] ITU-R SM.329-10: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain\".

\[25\] ETSI EN 301 489-50, v2.1.0: \"ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC)
standard for radio equipment and services; Part 50: Specific conditions
for Cellular Communication Base Station (BS), repeater and ancillary
equipment; Harmonised Standard covering the essential requirements of
article 3.1(b) of Directive 2014/53/EU\".

\[26\] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (TDD)\".

\[27\] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)\".

\[28\] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".

\[29\] CISPR 32: \"Electromagnetic compatibility of multimedia equipment
- Emission requirements\".

\[30\] 3GPP TS 38.113: \"NR; Base Station (BS) ElectroMagnetic
Compatibility (EMC)\".

\[31\] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".

\[32\] Void

\[33\] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"NR, E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard
Radio (MSR) Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".

\[34\] 3GPP TS 38.101-4: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission
and reception; Part 4: Performance requirements\".

> \[35\] IEC 61000-4-21: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
> 4-21: Testing and measurement techniques - Reverberation chamber test
> methods\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\], TS 37.113 \[4\] and the following apply. A
term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\] or TS 37.113
\[4\].

NOTE: Multi-word definitions are treated as linguistic expressions and
printed in italic font throughout this requirement specification.
Linguistic expressions may not be split and are printed in their
entirety.

**active antenna system base station:** BS system which combines an
*antenna array* with a transceiver unit array and a *radio distribution
network.*

**antenna array:** group of radiating elements characterized by the
geometry and the properties of the *array elements.*

**antenna port:** RF interface at the *transceiver array boundary*,
specifically the *TAB connectors.*

**BS type 1-H:** NR base station operating at FR1 with a requirement set
consisting of conducted requirements defined at individual *TAB
connectors* and OTA requirements defined at RIB.

**BS type 1-O:** NR base station operating at FR1 with a requirement set
consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the RIB.

**hybrid AAS BS**: AAS BS which has both a conducted RF interface and a
radiated RF interface in the far field and conforms to a *hybrid
requirements set.*

**MSR operation:** operation of AAS BS declared to be MSR in particular
*operating band(s) (including any of UTRA, E-UTRA and/or NR operation as
single RAT or multi-RAT based on TS 37.104 \[33\]).*

**NB-IoT In-band operation:** NB-IoT is operating in-band when it
utilizes the resource block(s) within a normal E-UTRA carrier.

**NB-IoT guard band operation:** NB-IoT is operating in guard band when
it utilizes the unused resource block(s) within an E-UTRA carrier\'s
guard-band.

**NB-IoT standalone operation:** NB-IoT is operating standalone when it
utilizes its own spectrum, for example the spectrum currently being used
by GERAN systems as a replacement of one or more GSM carriers, as well
as scattered spectrum for potential IoT deployment.

**OTA AAS BS:** AAS BS which has ≥8 *transceiver units* for E-UTRA or
MSR and ≥4 *transceiver units* for UTRA per cell and has a radiated RF
interface only and conforms to the *OTA requirements set.*

**OTA requirements set:** complete set of OTA requirements applied to an
OTA AAS BS.

**port:** particular interface of EUT used for EMC requirements testing
purposes.

NOTE: Any connection point on EUT intended for connection of cables to
or from EUT during the EMC testing is considered as a port.

EXAMPLE 1: Examples of ports for *hybrid AAS BS* are as presented in
figure 3.1‑1:

![](media/image3.emf){width="6.6875in" height="1.9270833333333333in"}

Figure 3.1-1: Examples of ports for *hybrid AAS BS*

EXAMPLE 2: Examples of ports for OTA AAS BS (i.e. with no antenna ports)
are as presented in figure 3.1-2:

![](media/image4.emf){width="6.510416666666667in" height="1.9375in"}

Figure 3.1-2: Examples of ports for OTA AAS BS

**radiated interface boundary**: operating band specific radiated
requirements reference where the radiated requirements apply.

**radio distribution network:** linear passive network which distributes
the RF power generated by the transceiver unit array to the *antenna
array*, and/or distributes the radio signals collected by the *antenna
array* to the transceiver unit array.

NOTE: In the case when the active transceiver units are physically
integrated with the *array elements* of the *antenna array*, the *radio
distribution network* is a one-to-one mapping.

**single RAT E-UTRA operation:** operation of AAS BS declared to be
single RAT E-UTRA in the *operating band.*

NOTE: *Single RAT E-UTRA operation* does not cover in-band NB-IoT, nor
guardband NB-IoT operation.

**single RAT UTRA operation:** operation of AAS BS declared to be single
RAT UTRA in the *operating band.*

**spatial exclusion zone: range of angles where no tests of radiated
immunity are made for *OTA AAS BS* (i.e. half sphere around the EUT\'s
radiating direction).**

**TAB connector:** *transceiver array boundary* connector.

**transceiver array boundary:** conducted interface between the
transceiver unit array and the composite antenna.

**transceiver unit:** active unit consisting of transmitter and/or
receiver which transmits and/or receives radio signals, and which may
include passive RF filters.

**telecommunication port:** ports which are intended to be connected to
telecommunication networks (e.g. public switched telecommunication
networks, integrated services digital networks), local area networks
(e.g. Ethernet, Token Ring) and similar networks.

NOTE: ETSI EN 301 489-1 \[21\] calls *telecommunication port* as the
\"wired network port\".

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth

f~offset~ Frequency offset used for discovering narrowband response for
receivers

F~UL\_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band

F~UL\_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band

Δf~OOB~ Maximum offset of the out-of-band boundary from the uplink
operating band edge

Δf~RIexclusion~ Maximum offset of the Radiated Immunity exclusion band
from the uplink operating band edge for test without *spatial exclusion
zone* applied

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR
21.905 \[1\] and the following apply.\
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

AAS Active Antenna System

**AAS BS AAS Base Station**

CSA Capability Set supported by the AAS BS

EMC ElectroMagnetic Compatibility

EUT Equipment Under Test

FR1 Frequency Range 1

MSR Multi-Standard Radio

NB-IoT Narrowband -- Internet of Things

NR New Radio

RCSA Radiated Capability Set supported by the AAS BS

RDN Radio Distribution Network

RF Radio Frequency

RIB Radiated Interface Boundary

TAB Transceiver Array Boundary

4 Test conditions
=================

The equipment shall be tested in normal test environment defined in base
station conformance testing specification TS 37.145-1 \[3\], or TS
37.145-2 \[10\]. The test conditions shall be recorded in the test
report.

For an AAS BS supporting more than one RAT, tests shall be performed
with RATs activated according to the test configurations in subclause
4.4. Tests shall be performed relating to each type of port and RIB, and
need not be repeated for each RAT if operating RATs are assessed
simultaneously during the test.

For AAS BS supporting only single RAT operation only, tests relating to
the *antenna port(s)* and RIBs shall be performed for each supported
RAT.

For AAS BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirements in the
present document apply for each supported operating band unless
otherwise stated. Operating bands and RATs shall be activated according
to the respective test configurations in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113
\[6\], TS 37.113 \[4\], or TS 38.113 \[30\]. Tests shall be performed
relating to each type of port and RIB, and all RATs per band shall be
assessed during the tests.

Requirements apply only for the declared operating band and
corresponding Band Categories as per CSA and/or RCSA capability sets and
manufacturer\'s declarations of the AAS BS in TS 37.145-1 \[3\] and TS
37.145-2 \[10\].

The manufacturer shall declare the supported capability set(s) according
to TS 37.145-1 \[3\] and TS 37.145-2 \[10\]. Tests performed on an AAS
BS according to a declared capability set(s) cover all single RAT and
multi-RAT configurations included in the declared capability set.

NOTE 1: *TAB connector* capability sets (CSA) for *hybrid AAS BS* are
defined in TS 37.145-1 \[3\] and declared in D6.12 declaration.

NOTE 2: Radiated capability sets (RCSA) for *hybrid AAS BS* and OTA AAS
BS are defined in TS 37.145-2 \[10\] and declared by D9.25 declaration.

Where the *hybrid AAS BS* has multiple *TAB connectors* which are
declared to be equivalent then it is sufficient to perform EMC tests on
a single representative *TAB connector*. For the definition of the *TAB
connector* equivalence declaration (D6.70), refer to TS 37.145-1 \[3\].

EMC test shall not be performed with the AAS BS *antenna array*
radiating, all *TAB connectors* shall be disconnected from the *radio
distribution network* (RDN)/antenna array as specified in TS 37.105
\[2\] and terminated in an appropriate load impedance. For the
description of the general AAS BS radio architecture and relations
between the RDN/*antenna array* and the Transceiver Array Boundary,
refer to TS 37.105 \[2\].

Depending on RAT capability sets supported by the AAS BS, the following
test conditions shall be referred and applied for the BS test
configurations:

\- For AAS BS in *single RAT* *UTRA operation* the test conditions from
TS 25.113 \[5\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in *single RAT* *E-UTRA operation* the test conditions
from TS 36.113 \[6\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in single RAT NR operation the test conditions from TS
38.113 \[30\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in *MSR operation* the test conditions from TS 37.113
\[4\] apply.

Whenever ports are considered for the emissions and immunity testing in
the referred TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\] and TS 37.113 \[4\]
specifications, special considerations shall be taken to test conditions
specification for OTA AAS BS due to lack of *antenna ports*.

NOTE 3: The receiver exclusion bands defined in E-UTRA and MSR
specifications for Band 46 operation are not applicable for AAS BS, as
the Band 46 operation is not supported by AAS BS.

NOTE 4: The NB-IoT operation is not supported by AAS BS.

4.1 Exclusion bands
-------------------

### 4.1.1 Transmitter exclusion band

The *transmitter exclusion band* for BS is the frequency range over
which no tests of radiated immunity of a transmitter are made. The
*transmitter exclusion band only applies to OTA AAS BS.*

The *transmitter exclusion band* is defined as:

F~DL,low~ -- Δf~OBUE~\<f \< F~DL,high~ + Δf~OBUE~

Where:

The value of Δf~OBUE,~ F~UL\_low~ and F~UL\_high~ are defined for each
*operating band* for NR, E-UTRA, UTRA in TS 37.105 \[2\].

NOTE: For BS capable of multi-band operation, the frequency ranges
relating to the RF bandwidths of all supported bands apply.

### 4.1.2 Receiver exclusion band

An exclusion band is a band of frequencies over which no tests of
radiated immunity are made.

In case the spatial exclusion (as discussed in subclause 9.2.2 and
depicted in figure 9.2.2-1) is used during the EMC RI testing, the
receiver exclusion band for OTA AAS BS is defined as:

F~UL\_low~ -- Δf~OOB~ \< f \< F~UL\_high~ + Δf~OOB~

Where:

\- Values of F~UL\_low~ and F~UL\_high~ are defined for each *operating
band* in TS 37.104 \[33\].

\- The values of Δf~OOB~ are defined in table 4.1.2-1.

Table 4.1.2-1: Maximum Δf~OOB~ offset outside the uplink operating band

  *Operating band* characteristics                 Δf~OOB~ (MHz)
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------------
  100 MHz ≥ F~UL\_high~ -- F~UL\_low~              20
  100 MHz \< F~UL\_high~ -- F~UL\_low~ ≤ 900 MHz   60

In case the *spatial exclusion zone* (as discussed in subclause 9.2.2
and depicted in figure 9.2.2-1) is not used during the EMC RI testing,
the receiver exclusion band for OTA AAS BS and *BS type 1-O* is defined
as:

F~UL\_low~ -- Δf~RIexclusion~ \< f \< F~UL\_high~ + Δf~RIexclusion~

Where the values of Δf~RIexclusion~ are defined in table 4.1.2-2.

Table 4.1.2-2: Maximum Δf~RIexclusion~ offset outside the uplink
operating band

  *Operating band* characteristics       Δf~RIexclusion~ (MHz)
  -------------------------------------- -----------------------
  100 MHz ≥ F~UL\_high~ -- F~UL\_low~    60
  100 MHz \< F~UL\_high~ -- F~UL\_low~   200

For BS capable of multi-band operation, the total receiver exclusion
band shall be the combination of the exclusion bands for each operating
band supported by AAS BS.

NOTE 1: The receiver exclusion bands do not apply for SDL bands.

NOTE 2: Void

4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link
------------------------------------------------------

Depending on RAT capability sets supported by the AAS BS, the following
arrangements for establishing a communication link shall be referred and
applied:

\- For AAS BS in single RAT UTRA operation, the arrangements for
establishing a communication link from TS 25.113 \[5\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in single RAT E-UTRA operation, the arrangements for
establishing a communication link from TS 36.113 \[6\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in MSR operation, the arrangements for establishing a
communication link from TS 37.113 \[4\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in single RAT NR operation, the arrangements for
establishing a communication link from TS 38.113 \[30\] apply.

4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers
--------------------------------------

Depending on RAT capability sets supported by the AAS BS, the following
narrow band responses on receivers shall be referred and applied:

\- For AAS BS in single RAT UTRA operation, the narrow band responses on
receivers from TS 25.113 \[5\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in single RAT E-UTRA operation, the narrow band responses
on receivers from TS 36.113 \[6\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in MSR operation the arrangements for narrow band
responses on receivers from TS 37.113 \[4\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in single RAT NR operation, the arrangements for narrow
band responses on receivers from TS 38.113 \[30\] apply.

4.4 BS test configurations
--------------------------

The present document specifies the applicable test conditions,
performance assessment and performance criteria for base stations in the
following categories:

\- AAS BS for UTRA TDD, UTRA FDD, E-UTRA, NR and MSR meeting the
conducted requirements of TS 37.105 \[2\], with conformance demonstrated
by compliance to TS 37.145-1 \[3\]. In this case, the EMC test
configuration are listed in tables 4.4-1, 4.4-3, 4.4-5, 4.4-7, 4.4-9,
4.4-11 respectively.

\- AAS BS for UTRA FDD, E-UTRA, NR and MSR meeting the OTA requirements
of TS 37.105 \[2\], with conformance demonstrated by compliance to TS
37.145-2 \[10\]. In this case, the EMC test configuration are listed in
table 4.4-2, 4.4-4, 4.4-6, 4.4-8, 4.4-10, 4.4-12 respectively.

The test configurations apply according to the declared RAT capability
sets (i.e. CSA or RCSA) of the AAS BS according to subclause 4.9 of
TS 37.145-1 \[3\] and TS 37.145-2 \[10\] and the Band Category of the
declared operating band (i.e. BC1, BC2 or BC3).

The AAS BS test configurations are defined as ATCx in TS 37.145-1 \[3\]
and ATCRx in TS 37.145-2\[10\], subclause 4.11.

\- For AAS BS declared to be capable of contiguous operation only, the
test configuration(s) in tables 4.4-1, 4.4-2 and 4.4-3, 4.4-4 denoted by
a \"C\" shall be used for testing.

\- For AAS BS declared to be capable of contiguous and non-contiguous
operation and where the parameters in the manufacture**\'**s declaration
according to subclause 4.10 of TS 37.145-1 \[3\] and TS 37.145-2 \[10\]
are identical for contiguous and non-contiguous operation, the test
configurations denoted by \"CNC\" shall be used.

\- For AAS BS declared to be capable of contiguous and non-contiguous
operation and where the parameters in the manufacture\'s declaration
according to subclause 4.10 of TS 37.145-1 \[3\] and TS 37.145-2 \[10\]
are not identical for contiguous and non-contiguous operation, the test
configurations denoted by \"C/NC\" shall be used for testing.

For immunity tests:

> \- The communication link for the RAT(s) listed in the table shall be
> established according to subclause 4.2.

\- Tests for ports relating to the RAT(s) supported shall be performed
according to subclause 4.1.

**Table 4.4-1: Test configuration applicability to requirements and
capability sets for *TAB connectors* supporting MSR operation**

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | *     | **E   | *     |       |       |       |       |
| **TAB | *UTRA | -UTRA | *UTRA |       |       |       |       |
| conne | +     | + NR  | +     |       |       |       |       |
| ctor* | E     | (CSA  | E     |       |       |       |       |
| test  | -UTRA | 3A)** | -UTRA |       |       |       |       |
| ca    | (CS   |       | +     |       |       |       |       |
| se ** | A3)** |       | NR**  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | *     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | *(CSA |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 3B)** |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
|       | **    | **    | **    | **    | **    | **    | *     |
|       | BC1** | BC2** | BC3** | BC1** | BC2** | BC3** | *BC1, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | BC2** |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Emi   | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    |
| ssion | ATC3a | ATC3a | ATC3b | ATC6  | ATC6  | ATC6  | ATC8  |
| tests | CNC:  | CNC:  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ANTC3 | ANTC3 |       | CNC:  | CNC:  | CNC:  | CNC:  |
|       | C/NC: | C/NC: |       | ANTC6 | ANTC6 | ANTC6 | ANTC8 |
|       | A     | A     |       | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: |       |
|       | TC3a, | TC3a, |       | ATC6, | ATC6, | ATC6, | C/NC: |
|       | ANTC3 | ANTC3 |       | ANTC6 | ANTC6 | ANTC6 | A     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | NTC8, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ATC8  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Imm   | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    |
| unity | ATC3a | ATC3a | ATC3b | ATC6  | ATC6  | ATC6  | ATC8  |
| tests | CNC:  | CNC:  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ANTC3 | ANTC3 |       | CNC:  | CNC:  | CNC:  | CNC:  |
|       | C/NC: | C/NC: |       | ANTC6 | ANTC6 | ANTC6 | ANTC8 |
|       | A     | A     |       | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: |       |
|       | TC3a, | TC3a, |       | ATC6, | ATC6, | ATC6, | C/NC: |
|       | ANTC3 | ANTC3 |       | ANTC6 | ANTC6 | ANTC6 | A     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | NTC8, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ATC8  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

**Table 4.4-2: Test configuration applicability to requirements and
capability sets for AAS BS supporting MSR operation**

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | *     | **E   | UTRA  |       |       |       |       |
| *Test | *UTRA | -UTRA | +     |       |       |       |       |
| c     | +     | + NR  | E     |       |       |       |       |
| ase** | E     | (RCSA | -UTRA |       |       |       |       |
|       | -UTRA | 3A)** | + NR  |       |       |       |       |
|       | (RCSA |       | (RCSA |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3)**  |       | 3B)   |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
|       | **    | **    | **    | **    | **    | **    | *     |
|       | BC1** | BC2** | BC3** | BC1** | BC2** | BC3** | *BC1, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | BC2** |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Emi   | C:    | C:    | N/A   | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    |
| ssion | A     | A     |       | ATCR7 | ATCR7 | ATCR7 | ATCR9 |
| tests | TCR3a | TCR3a |       | CNC:  | CNC:  |       |       |
|       | CNC:  | CNC:  |       | A     | A     | CNC:  | CNC:  |
|       | A     | A     |       | NTCR7 | NTCR7 | A     | A     |
|       | NTCR3 | NTCR3 |       | C/NC: | C/NC: | NTCR7 | NTCR9 |
|       | C/NC: | C/NC: |       | A     | A     | C/NC: |       |
|       | AT    | AT    |       | TCR7, | TCR7, | A     | C/NC: |
|       | CR3a, | CR3a, |       | A     | A     | TCR7, | A     |
|       | A     | A     |       | NTCR7 | NTCR7 | A     | TCR9, |
|       | NTCR3 | NTCR3 |       |       |       | NTCR7 | A     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | NTCR9 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Imm   | C:    | C:    | N/A   | C:    | C:    | C:    | C:    |
| unity | A     | A     |       | ATCR7 | ATCR7 | ATCR7 | ATCR9 |
| tests | TCR3a | TCR3a |       | CNC:  | CNC:  |       |       |
|       | CNC:  | CNC:  |       | A     | A     | CNC:  | CNC:  |
|       | A     | A     |       | NTCR7 | NTCR7 | A     | A     |
|       | NTCR3 | NTCR3 |       | C/NC: | C/NC: | NTCR7 | NTCR9 |
|       | C/NC: | C/NC: |       | A     | A     | C/NC: |       |
|       | AT    | AT    |       | TCR7, | TCR7, | A     | C/NC: |
|       | CR3a, | CR3a, |       | A     | A     | TCR7, | A     |
|       | A     | A     |       | NTCR7 | NTCR7 | A     | TCR9, |
|       | NTCR3 | NTCR3 |       |       |       | NTCR7 | A     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | NTCR9 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 4.4-3: Test configuration applicability to requirements and
capability sets for TAB connectors supporting one RAT only MSR operation

  Capability set              UTRA (MC) capable BS (CSA1)                E-UTRA (MC) capable BS (CSA2)                                                                                                           
  --------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------ ---------- ---------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  *TAB connector* test case   BC1                                        BC2                                        BC3        BC1                                      BC2                                      BC3
  Emission tests              C: ATC1a CNC: ANTC1a C/NC: ATC1a, ANTC1a   C: ATC1a CNC: ANTC1a C/NC: ATC1a, ANTC1a   C: ATC1b   C: ATC2a CNC: ANTC2 C/NC: ATC2a, ANTC2   C: ATC2a CNC: ANTC2 C/NC: ATC2a, ANTC2   C: ATC2a CNC: ANTC2 C/NC: ATC2a, ANTC2
  Immunity tests              C: ATC1a CNC: ANTC1a C/NC: ATC1a, ANTC1a   C: ATC1a CNC: ANTC1a C/NC: ATC1a, ANTC1a   C: ATC1b   C: ATC2a CNC: ANTC2 C/NC: ATC2a, ANTC2   C: ATC2a CNC: ANTC2 C/NC: ATC2a, ANTC2   C: ATC2a CNC: ANTC2 C/NC: ATC2a, ANTC2

**Table 4.4-4: Test configuration applicability to requirements and
capability sets for operating bands supporting one RAT only MSR
operation**

  **Capability set**   **UTRA (MC) capable BS (RCSA1)**               **E-UTRA (MC) capable BS (RCSA2)**                                                                                                                 
  -------------------- ---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- --------- -------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  **Test case**        **BC1**                                        **BC2**                                        **BC3**   **BC1**                                      **BC2**                                      **BC3**
  Emission tests       C: ATCR1a CNC: ANTCR1a C/NC: ATCR1a, ANTCR1a   C: ATCR1a CNC: ANTCR1a C/NC: ATCR1a, ANTCR1a   N/A       C: ATCR2a CNC: ANTCR2 C/NC: ATCR2a, ANTCR2   C: ATCR2a CNC: ANTCR2 C/NC: ATCR2a, ANTCR2   C: ATCR2a CNC: ANTCR2 C/NC: ATCR2a, ANTCR2
  Immunity tests       C: ATCR1a CNC: ANTCR1a C/NC: ATCR1a, ANTCR1a   C: ATCR1a CNC: ANTCR1a C/NC: ATCR1a, ANTCR1a   N/A       C: ATCR2a CNC: ANTCR2 C/NC: ATCR2a, ANTCR2   C: ATCR2a CNC: ANTCR2 C/NC: ATCR2a, ANTCR2   C: ATCR2a CNC: ANTCR2 C/NC: ATCR2a, ANTCR2

Table 4.4-5: Test configurations for a *TAB connector* supporting
single-RAT UTRA operation

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  *TAB connector* test case    Single-RAT UTRA FDD MC capable *TAB connector* (CSA4)\   Single-RAT UTRA FDD MC capable *TAB connector* (CSA4)\   Single-RAT UTRA FDD MC capable *TAB connector* (CSA4)\   Single-RAT UTRA TDD MC capable *TAB connector* (CSA4)\
                               C capable only                                           C and NC capable with identical parameters               C and NC capable with different parameters               C capable only
  ---------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  Emission tests               ATC1a                                                    ANTC1                                                    ATC1a, ANTC1                                             ATC1b

  Immunity tests               ATC1a                                                    ANTC1                                                    ATC1a, ANTC1                                             ATC1b
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 4.4-6: Test configurations for an AAS BS supporting single-RAT
UTRA operation

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Test case        Single-RAT UTRA FDD MC capable AAS BS operating band (RCSA4)\   Single-RAT UTRA FDD MC capable AAS BS operating band (RCSA4)\   Single-RAT UTRA FDD MC capable AAS BS operating band (RCSA4)\   Single-RAT UTRA TDD MC AAS BS operating band (RCSA4)\
                   C capable only                                                  C and NC capable with identical parameters                      C and NC capable with different parameters                      C capable only
  ---------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------
  Emission tests   ATC1a                                                           ANTC1                                                           ATC1a, ANTC1                                                     N/A 

  Immunity tests   ATCR1a                                                          ANTCR1                                                          ATCR1a, ANTCR1                                                   N/A  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 4.4-7: Test configurations for a *TAB connector* supporting
single-RAT E-UTRA operation capable of both contiguous and
non-contiguous spectrum in multi-carrier and/or CA operation in single
band

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| *TAB           | Single-RAT     | Single-RAT     | Single-RAT     |
| connector*     | E-UTRA MC      | E-UTRA MC      | E-UTRA MC      |
| test case      | capable *TAB   | capable *TAB   | capable *TAB   |
|                | connector*     | connector*     | connector*     |
|                | (CSA5)         | (CSA5)         | (CSA5)         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | C capable only | C and NC       | C and NC       |
|                |                | capable BS     | capable BS     |
|                |                | with identical | with different |
|                |                | parameters     | parameters     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                | (CNC)          | (CNC)          |
+================+================+================+================+
| Emission tests | ATC2a          | ANTC2          | ATC2a, ANTC2   |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Immunity tests | ATC2a          | ANTC2          | ATC2a, ANTC2   |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 4.4-8: Test configurations for an AAS BS supporting single-RAT
E-UTRA operation capable of\
both contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum in multi-carrier and/or CA
operation in single band

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Test case      | Single-RAT     | Single-RAT     | Single-RAT     |
|                | E-UTRA MC      | E-UTRA MC      | E-UTRA MC      |
|                | capable AAS BS | capable AAS BS | capable AAS BS |
|                | operating band | operating band | operating band |
|                | (RCSA5)        | (RCSA5)        | (RCSA5)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | C capable only | C and NC       | C and NC       |
|                |                | capable BS     | capable BS     |
|                |                | with identical | with different |
|                |                | parameters     | parameters     |
+================+================+================+================+
| Emission tests | ATCR2a         | ANTCR2         | ATCR2a, ANTCR2 |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Immunity tests | ATCR2a         | ANTCR2         | ATCR2a, ANTCR2 |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 4.4-9: Test configuration for *multi-band TAB connectors*
supporting MSR operation

  *TAB connector* test case    Test configuration for MBT   
  ---------------------------- ---------------------------- -------
                               BC1/BC2                      BC3
  Emission tests               ATC5b                        ATC5b
  Immunity tests               ATC5b                        ATC5b

Table 4.4-10: Test configuration for AAS BS operating bands containing
beams with multi-band dependencies supporting MSR operation

  *TAB connector* test case    Test configuration for MBT   
  ---------------------------- ---------------------------- --------
                               BC1/BC2                      BC3
  Emission tests               ATCR5b                       ATCR5b
  Immunity tests               ATCR5b                       ATCR5b

Table 4.4-11: Test configuration for *multi-band TAB connectors*
supporting Single-RAT only

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| *TAB           | UTRA FDD CSA4  | UTRA TDD CSA4  | E-UTRA Test    |
| connector*     |                |                | CSA5           |
| test case      |                |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| Emission test  | ATC1a/ANTC1    | ATC1b          | ATC2a/ANTC2    |
|                | (note 1) ATC5b | (note 2),      | (note 3),      |
|                |                | ATC5a          | ATC5b          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Immunity test  | ATC5b          | ATC5a          | ATC5b          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: ATC1a  |                |                |                |
| and/or ANTC1   |                |                |                |
| shall be       |                |                |                |
| applied in     |                |                |                |
| each supported |                |                |                |
| operating band |                |                |                |
| according to   |                |                |                |
| table 4.4-3a.  |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: ATC1b  |                |                |                |
| shall be       |                |                |                |
| applied in     |                |                |                |
| each supported |                |                |                |
| operating band |                |                |                |
| according to   |                |                |                |
| table 4.4-3a.  |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: ATC2   |                |                |                |
| and/or ANTC2   |                |                |                |
| shall be       |                |                |                |
| applied in     |                |                |                |
| each supported |                |                |                |
| operating band |                |                |                |
| according to   |                |                |                |
| table 4.4-4a.  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 4.4-12: Test configuration for AAS BS operating bands with
multi-band dependencies supporting single-RAT only

+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| *TAB           | UTRA FDD CSA4  | UTRA TDD CSA4 | E-UTRA Test    |
| connector*     |                |               | CSA5           |
| test case      |                |               |                |
+================+================+===============+================+
| Emission test  | ATCR1a/ANTCR1  | N/A           | ATCR2a/ANTCR2  |
|                | (note 1)       |               | (note 2),      |
|                | ATCR5b         |               | ATCR5b         |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| Immunity test  | ATCR5b         | N/A           | ATCR5b         |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: ATCR1a |                |               |                |
| and/or ANTCR1  |                |               |                |
| shall be       |                |               |                |
| applied in     |                |               |                |
| each supported |                |               |                |
| operating band |                |               |                |
| according to   |                |               |                |
| table 4.4-3b.  |                |               |                |
|                |                |               |                |
| NOTE 2: ATCR2  |                |               |                |
| and/or ANTCR2  |                |               |                |
| shall be       |                |               |                |
| applied in     |                |               |                |
| each supported |                |               |                |
| operating band |                |               |                |
| according to   |                |               |                |
| table 4.4-4b.  |                |               |                |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+

5 Performance assessment
========================

5.1 General
-----------

The following information shall be recorded in or annexed to the test
report:

\- the primary functions of the radio equipment to be tested during and
after the EMC testing;

\- the intended functions of the radio equipment which shall be in
accordance with the documentation accompanying the equipment;

\- the method to be used to verify that a communications link is
established and maintained;

\- the user-control functions and stored data that are required for
normal operation and the method to be used to assess whether these have
been lost after EMC stress;

\- the ancillary equipment to be combined with the radio equipment for
testing (where applicable);

\- the information about ancillary equipment intended to be used with
the radio equipment;

\- information about the common and/or RAT-specific active RF components
and other HW blocks for a communication link in AAS BS supporting more
than one RAT;

\- information about the common and/or band-specific active RF
components and other HW blocks for a communication link in AAS BS
capable of multi-band operation;

\- an exhaustive list of ports (and RIBs), classified as either power or
signal/control. Power ports shall further be classified as AC or DC
power.

A communication link used by more than one RAT or more than one
operating band, shall be assessed on all RATs and operating bands.
Communication link(s) and/or radio performance parameters for the RATs
and operating bands can during the test be assessed simultaneously or
separately for each RAT and band, depending on the test environment
capability.

NOTE 1: The present document does not cover ancillary equipment
requirements. However, the ancillary equipment EMC requirements are
still applicable to the AAS BS and for the ancillary equipment
performance assessment the appropriate non-AAS specifications in TS
25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\], TS 37.113 \[4\] or TS 38.113 \[30\] shall
be referred.

NOTE 2: The NB-IoT operation is not supported by AAS BS.

5.2 Assessment of performance in Downlink
-----------------------------------------

In the immunity tests, the output of the transmitter shall be connected
(via port for hybrid AAS BS, or via RIB for OTA AAS BS) to test
equipment which meets the requirements for the performance assessment of
RAT and bearer used in the immunity tests according to the following:

\- BLER assessment in TS 25.102 \[26\] in case of UTRA TDD

\- BLER assessment in TS 25.101 \[27\] in case of UTRA FDD

\- Throughput assessment in TS 36.101 \[28\] in case of E-UTRA

\- Throughput assessment in TS 38.101-4 \[34\] in case of NR

The level of the signal supplied to the equipment should be within the
range for which the assessment of throughput is not impaired. Power
control shall be OFF during the immunity testing.

5.3 Assessment of performance in Uplink
---------------------------------------

In the immunity tests, the performance in the uplink shall be monitored
at a telecommunications port(s) by using suitable test equipment
according to the following:

\- The value of the throughput shall be monitored in case of E-UTRA or
in case of NR

\- The value of the BLER shall be monitored in case of UTRA FDD or in
case of UTRA TDD

6 Performance criteria
======================

The test should, where possible, be performed using a bearer with the
characteristics of data rate and performance criteria defined for UTRA
TDD, UTRA FDD, E-UTRA, or NR. If the test is not performed using one of
these bearers (for example, if none of them are supported by the BS) the
characteristics of the bearer used shall be recorded in the test report.

Depending on RAT capability sets supported by the AAS BS, the following
performance criteria for continuous or for transient phenomena shall be
referred and applied:

\- For AAS BS in *single RAT UTRA operation*, the performance criteria
from TS 25.113 \[5\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in *single RAT E-UTRA operation*, the performance criteria
from TS 36.113 \[6\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in *MSR operation*, the performance criteria from TS
37.113 \[4\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in single RAT NR operation, the performance criteria from
TS 38.113 \[30\] apply.

NOTE 1: The present document does not cover ancillary equipment
requirements. However, the ancillary equipment EMC requirements are
still applicable to the AAS BS and for the ancillary equipment
performance criteria the appropriate non-AAS specifications in TS 25.113
\[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\], TS 37.113 \[4\] or TS 38.113 \[30\] shall be
referred.

NOTE 2: The NB-IoT operation is not supported by AAS BS.

7 Applicability overview
========================

7.1 Emission
------------

Table 7.1-1: Emission requirements applicability

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Phenomenon  | Application | Equipment   | Reference   | Reference   |
|             |             | test        |             |             |
|             |             | requirement | subclause   | standard    |
|             |             |             | in the      |             |
|             |             |             | present     |             |
|             |             |             | document    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | BS          |             |             |
|             |             | equipment   |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Radiated    | Enclosure   | applicable  | 8.2.1       | ITU-R       |
| emission    |             | for *hybrid |             | SM.329      |
|             |             | AAS BS*     |             | \[24\]      |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | (Note)      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Conducted   | DC power    | applicable  | 8.3         | CISP        |
| emission    | i           |             |             | R 32 \[29\] |
|             | nput/output |             |             |             |
|             | port        |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Conducted   | AC mains    | applicable  | 8.4         | CISP        |
| emission    | i           |             |             | R 32 \[29\] |
|             | nput/output |             |             |             |
|             | port        |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Conducted   | Teleco      | applicable  | 8.5         | CISPR 32    |
| emission    | mmunication |             |             | \[29\]      |
|             | port        |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Harmonic    | AC mains    | applicable  | 8.6         | IEC 61000   |
| current     | input port  |             |             | -3-2 \[11\] |
| emissions   |             |             |             | or\         |
|             |             |             |             | IEC         |
|             |             |             |             | 61000-3-12  |
|             |             |             |             | \[14\]      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Voltage     | AC mains    | applicable  | 8.7         | IEC 61000   |
| f           | input port  |             |             | -3-3 \[12\] |
| luctuations |             |             |             | or\         |
| and flicker |             |             |             | IEC         |
|             |             |             |             | 61000-      |
|             |             |             |             | 3-11 \[13\] |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE: The   |             |             |             |             |
| EMC         |             |             |             |             |
| radiated    |             |             |             |             |
| emissions   |             |             |             |             |
| r           |             |             |             |             |
| equirements |             |             |             |             |
| for the OTA |             |             |             |             |
| AAS BS are  |             |             |             |             |
| covered by  |             |             |             |             |
| the RF      |             |             |             |             |
| radiated    |             |             |             |             |
| emissions   |             |             |             |             |
| requirement |             |             |             |             |
| in          |             |             |             |             |
| TS 37.105   |             |             |             |             |
| \[2\],      |             |             |             |             |
| conforming  |             |             |             |             |
| to the TS   |             |             |             |             |
| 37.145-2    |             |             |             |             |
| \[10\].     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

7.2 Immunity
------------

Table 7.2-1: Immunity requirements applicability

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Phenomenon  | Application | Equipment   | Reference   | Reference   |
|             |             | test        |             |             |
|             |             | requirement | subclause   | standard    |
|             |             |             | in the      |             |
|             |             |             | present     |             |
|             |             |             | document    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | BS          |             |             |
|             |             | equipment   |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| RF          | Enclosure   | applicable  | 9.2         | IEC 61000   |
| elect       |             |             |             | ‑4‑3 \[16\] |
| ro­magnetic |             |             |             |             |
| field (80   |             |             |             |             |
| -- 6000     |             |             |             |             |
| MHz)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| El          | Enclosure   | applicable  | 9.3         | IEC 61000   |
| ectrostatic |             |             |             | ‑4‑2 \[15\] |
| discharge   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Fast        | Signal,     | applicable  | 9.4         | IEC 61000   |
| transients  | telecom     |             |             | ‑4‑4 \[17\] |
| common mode | munications |             |             |             |
|             | and control |             |             |             |
|             | ports, DC   |             |             |             |
|             | and AC      |             |             |             |
|             | power input |             |             |             |
|             | ports       |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| RF common   | Signal,     | applicable  | 9.5         | IEC 61000   |
| mode        | telecom     |             |             | ‑4‑6 \[19\] |
|             | munications |             |             |             |
| 0.15 -      | and control |             |             |             |
| 80 MHz      | ports, DC   |             |             |             |
|             | and AC      |             |             |             |
|             | power input |             |             |             |
|             | ports       |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Voltage     | AC mains    | applicable  | 9.6         | IEC 61000‑  |
| dips and    | power input |             |             | 4‑11 \[20\] |
| in          | ports       |             |             |             |
| terruptions |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Surges,     | AC power    | applicable  | 9.7         | IEC 61000   |
| common and  | input ports |             |             | ‑4‑5 \[18\] |
| d           | and         |             |             |             |
| ifferential | telecom     |             |             |             |
| mode        | munications |             |             |             |
|             | port        |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

8 Emission
==========

8.1 Test configurations
-----------------------

This subclause defines the configurations for emission tests as follows:

\- The equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as
specified in the functional standards;

\- The test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;

\- If the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to
ancillary equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment
while connected to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment
necessary to exercise the ports;

\- If the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient
number shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to
ensure that all the different types of termination are tested;

\- The test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall
be recorded in the test report;

\- Ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to
an ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly
terminated to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary
equipment, In case of *hybrid AAS BS*, Radio Frequency (RF) input/output
ports shall be correctly terminated;

\- For OTA AAS BS without Radio Frequency (RF) input/output ports but
intentionally radiating through the *antenna array*, the equipment shall
be placed in a test setup suitable for the radiated power;

\- Ports which are not connected to cables during normal operation, e.g.
service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors etc.
shall not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC testing.
Where cables have to be connected to these ports, or interconnecting
cables have to be extended in length in order to exercise the EUT,
precautions shall be taken to ensure that the evaluation of the EUT is
not affected by the addition or extension of these cables;

\- The test arrangements for transmitter and receiver clauses of the
transceiver are described separately for the sake of clarity. However,
where possible the test of the transmitter clause and receiver clause of
the EUT may be carried out simultaneously to reduce test time.

8.2 Radiated emission from base station 
---------------------------------------

### 8.2.1 Radiated emission, hybrid AAS BS 

This test is applicable to *hybrid AAS BS*. This test shall be performed
on a representative configuration of the *hybrid AAS BS*.

Depending on RAT capability sets supported by the *hybrid AAS BS*, the
following radiated emission requirements apply:

\- For *hybrid AAS BS* in *single RAT UTRA operation*, the base stations
radiated emission requirements from TS 25.113 \[5\] apply.

\- For *hybrid* *AAS BS* in *single RAT E-UTRA operation* the base
stations radiated emission requirements from TS 36.113 \[6\] apply.

\- For *hybrid AAS BS* in *MSR operation,* the base stations radiated
emission requirements from TS 37.113 \[4\] apply.

\- For *hybrid AAS BS* in single RAT NR operation, the *BS type 1-H*
radiated emission requirements from TS 38.113 \[30\] apply.

### 8.2.2 Radiated emission, OTA AAS BS

This test is applicable to OTA AAS BS. This test shall be performed on a
representative configuration of the OTA AAS BS.

For OTA AAS BS, the radiated emission requirement is covered by RF
radiated spurious emission requirement in TS 37.105 \[2\], conforming to
the test requirement in TS 37.145-2 \[10\].

NOTE: As the EMC radiated emissions of the OTA AAS BS cannot be
distinguished between the intended emissions (nor to any spurious
emissions related to these intentional transmissions) a single radiated
emissions requirement is used for the OTA AAS BS.

8.3 Conducted emissions, DC power input/output port
---------------------------------------------------

This test is applicable to equipment which may have DC cables longer
than 3 m.

If the DC power cable of the radio equipment is intended to be less than
3 m in length, and intended only for direct connection to a dedicated AC
to DC power supply, then the measurement shall be performed only on the
AC power input of that power supply as specified in subclause 8.4.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
radio equipment.

Depending on RAT capability sets supported by the BS, the following
conducted emission requirements apply:

\- For AAS BS in *single RAT UTRA operation,* the DC power input/output
port conducted emissions requirements from TS 25.113 \[5\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in *single RAT E-UTRA operation,* the DC power
input/output port conducted emissions requirements from TS 36.113 \[6\]
apply.

\- For AAS BS in *MSR operation,* the DC power input/output port
conducted emissions requirements from TS 37.113 \[4\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in single RAT NR operation, the DC power input/output port
conducted emissions requirements from TS 38.113 \[30\] apply.

8.4 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port
---------------------------------------------------------

This test is applicable to equipment powered by the AC mains.

This test is not applicable to AC output ports which are connected
directly (or via a circuit breaker) to the AC power port of the EUT.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
radio equipment.

Depending on RAT capability sets supported by the BS, the following
conducted emission requirements apply:

\- For AAS BS in *single RAT UTRA operation,* the AC mains power
input/output port conducted emissions requirements from TS 25.113 \[5\]
apply.

\- For AAS BS in *single RAT E-UTRA operation,* the AC mains power
input/output port conducted emissions requirements from TS 36.113 \[6\]
apply.

\- For AAS BS in *MSR operation,* the AC mains power input/output port
conducted emissions requirements from TS 37.113 \[4\] apply.

\- For AAS BS in single RAT NR operation, the AC mains power
input/output port conducted emissions requirements from TS 38.113 \[30\]
apply.

8.5 Harmonic current emissions (AC mains input port)
----------------------------------------------------

The requirements of IEC 61000‑3‑2 \[11\] for harmonic current emission
apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present document. For
equipment with an input current of greater than 16 A per phase, IEC
61000-3-12 \[14\] applies.

8.6 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port)
----------------------------------------------------------

The requirements of IEC 61000‑3‑3 \[12\] for voltage fluctuations and
flicker apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present
document. For equipment with an input current of greater than 16 A per
phase, IEC 61000-3-11 \[13\] applies.

8.7 Conducted emissions, telecommunication ports
------------------------------------------------

This test is applicable for radio equipment for fixed use which have
telecommunication ports.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of radio
equipment.

The test method and limits shall be in accordance with CISPR 32 \[29\],
as captured in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\], TS 38.113 \[30\] and TS
37.113 \[4\] for UTRA, E-UTRA, NR and MSR, respectively.

9 Immunity
==========

9.1 Test configurations
-----------------------

This subclause defines the configurations for immunity tests as follows:

\- The equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as
specified in the functional standards;

\- During test, the RF output power may be reduced to a power level
sufficient for establishing and maintaining the required communication
link;

\- The test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;

\- If the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to
ancillary equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment
while connected to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment
necessary to exercise the ports;

\- If the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient
number shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to
ensure that all the different types of termination are tested;

\- The test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall
be recorded in the test report;

\- Ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to
an ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly
terminated to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary
equipment, In case of *hybrid AAS BS*, Radio Frequency (RF) input/output
ports shall be correctly terminated;

> \- For OTA AAS BS intentionally radiating through the *antenna array*,
> the equipment shall be placed in a test setup capable to reduce the
> power to a level sufficient for establishing and maintaining the
> communication link;
>
> \- Ports which are not connected to cables during normal operation,
> e.g. service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors
> etc. shall not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC
> testing. Where cables have to be connected to these ports, or
> interconnecting cables have to be extended in length in order to
> exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken to ensure that the
> evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or extension of
> these cables;

\- Immunity tests on the entire AAS BS shall be performed by
establishing communication links at the radio interface (e.g. with the
mobile simulator) and the S1/Iub interface (e.g. with an RNC/EPC
simulator) and evaluating the BLER/throughput (see figures 9.1-1 and
9.1-2);

\- Immunity tests shall be performed on both the Uplink and Downlink
paths. The tests shall also include both the radio interface and the
S1/Iub interface. BLER/throughput evaluation may be carried out at
either interface, where appropriate, and the measurements for the Uplink
and Downlink paths may be carried out as a single path looped at either
the radio interface or S1/Iub interface. In case of looping is used care
have to be taken that the BLER/throughput information doesn\'t change
due to looping;

\- For AAS BS capable of multi-RAT and/or multi-band operation,
communication links shall be established in such a way that all RATs and
operating band(s) are activated during the test according to the
applicable test configurations in subclause 4.5. Performance assessment
may be done separately for each RAT and/or operating band.

![](media/image5.emf){width="6.5in" height="1.1354166666666667in"}

Figure 9.1-1: Communication link set up for *hybrid AAS BS* immunity
measurement

![](media/image6.emf){width="6.5in" height="1.0208333333333333in"}

Figure 9.1-2: Communication link set up for OTA AAS BS immunity
measurement

9.2 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz - 6000 MHz)
------------------------------------------------

### 9.2.1 RF electromagnetic field, hybrid AAS BS

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment to operate as intended
in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic field disturbance
at the enclosure. This test is applicable to *hybrid AAS BS* and shall
be performed on a representative configuration of the *hybrid AAS BS*.

The test method and levels shall be in accordance with
IEC 61000‑4‑3 \[16\] as captured in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\], TS
38.113 \[30\] and TS 37.113 \[4\] for UTRA, E-UTRA, NR and MSR,
respectively. The use of reverberation chamber test method according to
IEC 61000-4-21 \[35\], clause 6.1 and Annex D as alternative method is
allowed.

### 9.2.2 RF electromagnetic field, OTA AAS BS

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment operate as intended in
the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic field disturbance at
the enclosure. The OTA AAS BS includes an antenna which is an
intentional radiator and does not form part of the EMC enclosure,
application of RF electromagnetic fields in these directions may damage
the BS receivers unintentionally.

In the operational range of angles of the OTA AAS BS antenna receivers
are protected by the RF blocking requirements defined in TS 37.105
\[2\], conforming to the test requirement in TS 37.145-2 \[10\] and are
not part of the EMC RF electromagnetic field immunity requirement.

In the range of angles except the operational range of angles of the OTA
AAS BS antenna (i.e. except for the half sphere around the DUT radiating
direction as depicted on figure 9.2.2-1) and for the frequency range
above 690 MHz (according to ETSI EN 301 489-50 \[25\]), the EMC RF
electromagnetic field immunity requirement with a level of 10 V/m
applies on the non-radiating faces of the OTA AAS BS*,* as depicted on
figure 9.2.2-1.

When no spatial exclusion is implemented the use of reverberation
chamber test method according to IEC 61000-4-21 \[35\], clause 6.1 and
Annex D as alternative method is allowed.

![](media/image7.emf){width="4.78125in" height="3.7083333333333335in"}

Figure 9.2.2-1 EMC RF electromagnetic field immunity requirement testing
directions for OTA AAS BS (horizontal plane depicted) with the *spatial
exclusion zone* applied

Depending on RAT capability sets supported by the OTA AAS BS, the
following RF electromagnetic field requirements apply over the range of
angles covered by the EMC RF electromagnetic field immunity requirement:

\- For OTA AAS BS in *single RAT UTRA operation*, the RF electromagnetic
field immunity requirements from TS 25.113 \[5\] apply.

\- For OTA AAS BS in *single RAT E-UTRA operation*, the RF
electromagnetic field immunity requirements from TS 36.113 \[6\] apply.

\- For OTA AAS BS in *MSR operation*, the RF electromagnetic field
immunity requirements from TS 37.113 \[4\] apply.

\- For OTA AAS BS in single RAT NR operation, the *BS type 1-O*
requirements for the RF electromagnetic field immunity from TS 38.113
\[30\] apply.

9.3 Electrostatic discharge
---------------------------

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment to operate as intended
in the event of an electrostatic discharge.

The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
radio equipment.

The test method and levels shall be in accordance with
IEC 61000‑4‑2 \[15\] as captured in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\], TS
38.113 \[30\] and TS 37.113 \[4\] for UTRA, E-UTRA, NR and MSR,
respectively.

9.4 Fast transients common mode
-------------------------------

The test shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.

This test shall be performed on signal ports, telecommunication ports,
control ports and DC power input/output ports if the cables may be
longer than 3 m.

Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because
the manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables
longer than 3 m, a list of ports which were not tested for this reason
shall be included in the test report.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment.

The test method and levels shall be in accordance with
IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[17\] as captured in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\], TS
38.113 \[30\] and TS 37.113 \[4\] for UTRA, E-UTRA, NR and MSR,
respectively.

9.5 RF common mode (0.15 MHz - 80 MHz)
--------------------------------------

The test shall be performed on AC mains power input/output ports.

This test shall be performed on signal ports, telecommunication ports,
control and DC power input/output ports, which may have cables longer
than 3 m.

Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because
the manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables
longer than stated above, a list of ports which were not tested shall be
included in the test report.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment.

The test method and levels shall be in accordance with
IEC 61000‑4‑6 \[19\] as captured in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\], TS
38.113 \[30\] and TS 37.113 \[4\] for UTRA, E-UTRA, NR and MSR,
respectively.

NOTE: This test can also be performed using the clamp injection method,
where appropriate, see IEC 61000‑4‑6 \[19\].

9.6 Voltage dips and interruptions
----------------------------------

These tests assess the ability of radio equipment to operate as intended
in the event of voltage dips and interruptions present on the AC mains
power input ports.

The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.

These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment.

The test method and levels shall be in accordance with
IEC 61000‑4‑11 \[20\] as captured in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\],
TS 38.113 \[30\] and TS 37.113 \[4\] for UTRA, E-UTRA, NR and MSR,
respectively.

9.7 Surges, common and differential mode
----------------------------------------

These tests assess the ability of radio equipment to operate as intended
in the event of surges being present at the AC mains power input ports
and telecommunication ports.

The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.

This test shall be additionally performed on telecommunication ports.

These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment.

The test method and levels shall be in accordance with
IEC 61000‑4‑5 \[18\] as captured in TS 25.113 \[5\], TS 36.113 \[6\], TS
38.113 \[30\] and TS 37.113 \[4\] for UTRA, E-UTRA, NR and MSR,
respectively.

########  Annex A (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | *     | **T   | *     | **    | **    | **Su  | **New |
| ate** | *Meet | Doc** | *CR** | Rev** | Cat** | bject | vers  |
|       | ing** |       |       |       |       | /Comm | ion** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R4-1  |       |       |       | First | 0.1.0 |
| 16-02 | 4\#78 | 61123 |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of TS |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  |       |       |       | Pres  | 1.0.0 |
| 16-03 | N\#71 | 60401 |       |       |       | ented |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | appr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oval. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ecomm |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ended |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ETSI  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edi   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tHelp |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-71 |       |       |       |       | TR    | 1     |
| 16-03 |       |       |       |       |       | app   | 3.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | enary |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-72 | RP-1  | 0002  | 1     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
| 16/06 |       | 61142 |       |       |       | rific | 3.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | env   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ironm |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ental |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | condi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ences |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-75 | RP-1  | 0004  | \-    | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 17/03 |       | 70586 |       |       |       | TS    | 3.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pecif |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | icati |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scope |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-75 | \-    | \-    | \-    | \-    | U     | 1     |
| 17-03 |       |       |       |       |       | pdate | 4.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-14 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MCC) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-76 | RP-1  | 0009  |       | A     | CR to | 1     |
| 17/06 |       | 71306 |       |       |       | TS    | 4.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Isol  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 46    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B-IoT |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AAS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spe   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0059  | 1     | B     | Big   | 1     |
| 17-12 | N\#78 | 72599 |       |       |       | CR to | 5.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eAAS  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v1    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5.0.0 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0064  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 18-03 | N\#79 | 80282 |       |       |       | TS3   | 5.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0067  | 1     | B     | CR to | 1     |
| 18-06 | N\#80 | 81075 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trodu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | into  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AAS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spe   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0071  | 2     | B     | CR to | 1     |
| 18-12 | N\#82 | 82362 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Excl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Bands |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rad   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Imm   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Test  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FR2   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0073  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 18-12 | N\#82 | 82386 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | addit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ional |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nputs |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trodu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of NR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AAS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spe   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0074  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 18-12 | N\#82 | 82386 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RA    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T-spe |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AAS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ology |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0075  | 1     | B     | CR to | 1     |
| 18-12 | N\#82 | 82386 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sider |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | narro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wband |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | resp  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | onses |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | munic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | link  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0076  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 18-12 | N\#82 | 82386 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CSA   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RCSA  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | capab |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sets  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0077  | 1     | B     | Draft | 1     |
| 19-03 | N\#83 | 90401 |       |       |       | CR to | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Excl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Bands |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rad   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0078  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 19-06 | N\#84 | 91262 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Up    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dates |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rx    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | excl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | zone  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ology |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RI    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | te    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pur   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | poses |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0080  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 19-06 | N\#84 | 91262 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | subc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.2   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0084  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 19-06 | N\#84 | 91262 |       |       |       | 3     | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ubsec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | index |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.1   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0085  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 19-09 | N\#85 | 92019 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CISPR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6-1-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DC    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cond  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ucted |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Emiss |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ion(c |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2 and |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | subc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.1)  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0087  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 19-09 | N\#85 | 92053 |       |       |       | 3     | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0093  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 19-12 | N\#86 | 93002 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | efini |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | subc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3.1   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0094  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 19-12 | N\#86 | 93002 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | notes |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | subc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.1   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0095  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-03 | N\#87 | 00393 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Add   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ransm |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | itter |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | excl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MSR   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (subc |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.1)  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0096  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 01005 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.9.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 37    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .114: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ernal |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refe  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrect |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-15 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0097  | 1     | F     | \[R1  | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00984 |       |       |       | 5\]CR | 5.9.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.114 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Add   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rev   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erber |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | amber |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rad   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imm   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | te    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (c    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | \-    | \-    | \-    | \-    | U     | **16. |
| 20-06 | N\#88 |       |       |       |       | pdate | 0.0** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MCC) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    |       |       |       |       |       | **16. |
| 23-03 | N\#99 |       |       |       |       |       | 1.0** |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
