3GPP TS 37.144 V16.0.0 (2020-06)

Technical Specification

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

User Equipment (UE) and Mobile Station (MS) GSM, UTRA and E-UTRA over
the air performance requirements

(Release 16)

![5G-logo\_175px](media/image1.jpeg){width="1.3229166666666667in"
height="0.9166666666666666in"}
![3GPP-logo\_web](media/image2.png){width="1.78125in"
height="1.0416666666666667in"}

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP..\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and Reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 6

1 Scope 7

2 References 7

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 8

3.1 Definitions 8

3.2 Symbols 8

3.3 Abbreviations 8

4 General 8

4.1 Minimum requirements for roaming bands 8

4.2 Relationship between minimum requirements for roaming bands and test
requirements 8

4.3 Terminal classes 9

4.3.1 Mechanical modes 9

4.4 UTRA chip rates 9

5 Frequency bands 9

5.1 GSM frequency bands 9

5.2 UTRA FDD frequency bands 9

5.3 UTRA TDD frequency bands 10

5.4 E-UTRA FDD frequency bands 10

5.5 E-UTRA TDD frequency bands 10

6 Transmitter total radiated power 11

6.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE 11

6.1.1 Beside the head phantom position 11

6.1.1.1 GSM 11

6.1.1.2 UTRA FDD 12

6.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD 12

6.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantom position 12

6.1.2.1 UTRA FDD 12

6.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD 13

6.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD 13

6.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD 13

6.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position 13

6.1.3.1 UTRA FDD 13

6.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD 14

6.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD 14

6.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD 14

6.2 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LME 14

6.2.1 GSM 15

6.2.2 UTRA FDD 15

6.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD 15

6.2.4 E-UTRA FDD 16

6.2.5 E-UTRA TDD 16

6.3 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LEE 16

6.3.1 GSM 16

6.3.2 UTRA FDD 17

6.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD 18

6.3.4 E-UTRA FDD 18

6.3.5 E-UTRA TDD 19

7 Receiver total radiated sensitivity 19

7.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE 19

7.1.1 Beside the head phantom position 19

7.1.1.1 GSM 19

7.1.1.2 UTRA FDD 20

7.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD 20

7.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position 21

7.1.2.1 UTRA FDD 21

7.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD 21

7.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD 22

7.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD 22

7.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position 22

7.1.3.1 UTRA FDD 22

7.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD 22

7.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD 23

7.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD 23

7.2 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LME 23

7.2.1 GSM 23

7.2.2 UTRA FDD 23

7.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD 24

7.2.4 E-UTRA FDD 24

7.2.5 E-UTRA TDD 24

7.3 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LEE 24

7.3.1 GSM 25

7.3.2 UTRA FDD 25

7.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD 26

7.3.4 E-UTRA FDD 26

7.3.5 E-UTRA TDD 27

8 Receiver total radiated multi-antenna sensitivity 27

8.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE 27

8.1.1 Free Space 27

8.1.1.1 E-UTRA FDD 28

8.1.1.2 E-UTRA TDD 28

Annex A (normative): Environmental conditions 30

A.1 General 30

A.2 Environmental requirements 30

A.2.2 Temperature 30

A.2.3 Voltage 30

Annex B (informative): Recommended performance 31

B.1 General 31

B.2 Transmitter total radiated power 31

B.2.1 Recommended performance for handheld UE 31

B.2.1.1 Beside the head phantom position 31

B.2.1.1.1 GSM 31

B.2.1.1.2 UTRA FDD 31

B.2.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD 32

B.2.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position 32

B.2.1.2.1 UTRA FDD 32

B.2.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD 32

B.2.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD 33

B.2.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD 33

B.2.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position 33

B.2.1.3.1 UTRA FDD 33

B.2.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD 33

B.2.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD 34

B.2.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD 34

B.2.2 Recommended performance for LME 34

B.2.2.1 GSM 34

B.2.2.2 UTRA FDD 34

B.2.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD 34

B.2.2.4 E-UTRA FDD 35

B.2.2.5 E-UTRA TDD 35

B.2.3 Recommended performance for LEE 35

B.2.3.1 GSM 35

B.2.3.2 UTRA FDD 36

B.2.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD 36

B.2.3.4 E-UTRA FDD 37

B.2.3.5 E-UTRA TDD 37

B.3 Receiver total radiated sensitivity 37

B.3.1 Recommended performance for handheld UE 37

B.3.1.1 Beside the head phantom position 37

B.3.1.1.1 GSM 37

B.3.1.1.2 UTRA FDD 38

B.3.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD 38

B.3.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position 39

B.3.1.2.1 UTRA FDD 39

B.3.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD 39

B.3.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD 40

B.3.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD 40

B.3.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position 40

B.3.1.3.1 UTRA FDD 40

B.3.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD 40

B.3.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD 41

B.3.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD 41

B.3.2 Recommended performance for LME 41

B.3.2.1 GSM 41

B.3.2.2 UTRA FDD 41

B.3.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD 41

B.3.2.4 E-UTRA FDD 42

B.3.2.5 E-UTRA TDD 42

B.3.3 Recommended performance for LEE 42

B.3.3.1 GSM 42

B.3.3.2 UTRA FDD 42

B.3.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD 43

B.3.3.4 E-UTRA FDD 44

B.3.3.5 E-UTRA TDD 44

Annex C (informative): Change history 45

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document establishes over the air antenna minimum
requirements for user equipment (UE) and mobile station (MS).

Handheld UE requirements are defined for roaming bands for the speech
position (beside the head and beside the head and hand) and hand phantom
browsing mode position. Laptop mounted equipment requirements are
defined for roaming bands for the data transfer position (laptop ground
plane phantom). Laptop embedded equipment requirements are defined for
roaming bands for the data transfer position (free space).

All bands are potential roaming bands, and the requirements for roaming
bands shall therefore be fulfilled for all bands supported by a UE/MS.

Requirements for operating bands are dependent on how the network has
been built and are thus operator specific and cannot be specified here.
Recommended performance values for operating bands (Annex B) are however
included in this specification for information. It should be recognised
that the ability to meet the recommended performance values depends on
the number of frequency bands supported by the UE/MS.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

• References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 25 101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 34.114: \"User Equipment (UE) / Mobile Station (MS) Over
The Air (OTA) antenna performance; Conformance testing\".

\[5\] ETSI ETR 273: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using
test sites) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement
uncertainties; Part 1: Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio
equipment characteristics; Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".

\[6\] 3GPP TR 25.914: "Measurements of radio performances for UMTS
terminals in speech mode"

\[7\] 3GPP TR 37.977: "Verification of radiated multi-antenna reception
performance of User Equipment (UE)"

\[8\] 3GPP TR 37.902: "Measurements of User Equipment (UE) radio
performances for LTE/UMTS terminals; Total Radiated Power (TRP) and
Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS) test methodology"

\[9\] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: "User Equipment (UE) conformance specification
Radio transmission and reception; Part 1: Conformance Testing;"

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] , TR 37.977 \[7\] and the following apply. A
term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\] or TR 37.977
\[7\].

**primary mechanical mode:** the mode that is most often used during a
call beside the head. Other mechanical modes are secondary. Every
terminal has at least one primary mechanical mode.

**speech position:** UE used close to head phantom (specific
anthropomorphic mannequin).

**data transfer position:** UE used away from the user's head,
applicable for LME and LEE devices.

**FS:** UE used in a free space configuration.

**LME:** Laptop mounted equipment (such as plug-in devices like USB
dongles).

**LEE:** Laptop embedded equipment (such as embedded module card
embedded in notebooks).

3.2 Symbols
-----------

*TRP~average\ ~*the average measured total radiated power of low, mid
and high channel

*TRP~min\ ~*the lowest measured total radiated power of each channel
within an operating band

*TRS~average\ ~*the average measured total radiated sensitivity of low,
mid and high channel

*TRS~max\ ~*the highest measured total radiated sensitivity of each
channel within an operating band

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\], TR 37.977 \[7\] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\] or TR
37.977 \[7\]..

DUT Device Under Test

OTA Over The Air

TRMS Total Radiated Multi-antenna Sensitivity

TRP Total Radiated Power

TRS Total Radiated Sensitivity

4 General
=========

4.1 Minimum requirements for roaming bands
------------------------------------------

The minimum requirements for roaming bands apply only to the primary
mechanical mode in the environmental conditions specified in Annex A.
All bands are potential roaming bands, and a UE/MS shall fulfil the
minimum requirements for roaming bands for all bands supported by the
UE/MS.

4.2 Relationship between minimum requirements for roaming bands and test requirements
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The minimum requirements for roaming bands given in this specification
make no allowance for measurement uncertainty. The test specification
34.114 \[4\] Annex F defines test tolerances. These test tolerances are
individually calculated for each test. The test tolerances are used to
relax the minimum requirements in this specification to create test
requirements.

The measurement results returned by the test system are compared -
without any modification - against the test requirements as defined by
the shared risk principle.

The shared risk principle is defined in ETR 273 \[5\] Part 1 sub-part 2
section 6.5.

4.3 Terminal classes 
--------------------

### 4.3.1 Mechanical modes

The mechanical modes of a device under test (DUT) are declared by the
manufacturer. A DUT shall have at least one mechanical mode. If only one
mode is supported, then this is defined as the primary.

4.4 UTRA chip rates
-------------------

The requirements defined in this specification for UTRA are based on a
chip rate of 3.84 Mcps (FDD) and 1.28 Mcps (TDD).

NOTE: Other chip rates may be considered in future releases.

5 Frequency bands
=================

5.1 GSM frequency bands
-----------------------

The requirements defined in this specification for GSM apply to the
frequency bands defined in Table 5.1-1.

Table 5.1-1: GSM frequency bands

+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
| Operating band | UL frequencies           | DL frequencies           |
|                |                          |                          |
|                | MS transmit, BTS receive | MS receive, BTS transmit |
+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
| GSM 850        | 824 - 849 MHz            | 869 - 894 MHz            |
+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
| P-GSM 900      | 890 - 915 MHz            | 935 - 960 MHz            |
+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
| E-GSM 900      | 880 - 915 MHz            | 925 - 960 MHz            |
+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
| DCS 1800       | 1710 - 1785 MHz          | 1805 - 1880 MHz          |
+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
| PCS 1900       | 1850 -1910 MHz           | 1930 -1990 MHz           |
+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+

5.2 UTRA FDD frequency bands
----------------------------

The requirements defined in this specification for UTRA FDD apply to the
frequency bands defined in Table 5.2-1.

Table 5.2-1: UTRA FDD frequency bands

+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| Operating Band | UL frequencies              | DL frequencies              |
|                |                             |                             |
|                | UE transmit, Node B receive | UE receive, Node B transmit |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| I              | 1920 - 1980 MHz             | 2110 - 2170 MHz             |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| II             | 1850 - 1910 MHz             | 1930 - 1990 MHz             |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| III            | 1710 - 1785 MHz             | 1805 - 1880 MHz             |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| IV             | 1710 - 1755 MHz             | 2110 - 2155 MHz             |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| V              | 824 - 849 MHz               | 869 - 894 MHz               |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| VI             | 830 - 840 MHz               | 875 - 885 MHz               |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| VII            | 2500 - 2570 MHz             | 2620 - 2690 MHz             |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| VIII           | 880 - 915 MHz               | 925 - 960 MHz               |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| IX             | 1749,9 -- 1784,9 MHz        | 1844,9 -- 1879,9 MHz        |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
| XIX            | 830 - 845MHz                | 875 - 890 MHz               |
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+

Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded

5.3 UTRA TDD frequency bands
----------------------------

The requirements defined in this specification for UTRA TDD apply to the
frequency bands defined in Table 5.3-1.

Table 5.3-1: UTRA LCR TDD frequency bands

+----------------+-----------------+
| Operating Band | Frequencies     |
+----------------+-----------------+
| a              | 1900 - 1920 MHz |
|                |                 |
|                | 2010 - 2025 MHz |
+----------------+-----------------+
| b\*            | 1850 - 1910 MHz |
|                |                 |
|                | 1930 - 1990 MHz |
+----------------+-----------------+
| c\*            | 1910 - 1930 MHz |
+----------------+-----------------+
| d\*\*          | 2570 - 2620 MHz |
+----------------+-----------------+
| e              | 2300 - 2400 MHz |
+----------------+-----------------+
| f              | 1880 - 1920 MHz |
+----------------+-----------------+

> NOTE: Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.\
> \* Used in ITU Region 2\
> \*\* Used in ITU Region 1

5.4 E-UTRA FDD frequency bands
------------------------------

The requirements defined in this specification for E-UTRA FDD apply to
the frequency bands defined in Table 5.4-1.

Table 5.4-1 E-UTRA FDD operating bands

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------- ------------ ---- ------------ --------
  E‑UTRA Operating Band                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Uplink (UL) operating band\   Downlink (DL) operating band\   Duplex Mode                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BS receive\                   BS transmit\                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UE transmit                   UE receive                                                                   

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~                                                    

  1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1920 MHz                      --                              1980 MHz      2110 MHz     --   2170 MHz     FDD

  2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1850 MHz                      --                              1910 MHz      1930 MHz     --   1990 MHz     FDD

  3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1710 MHz                      --                              1785 MHz      1805 MHz     --   1880 MHz     FDD

  4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1710 MHz                      --                              1755 MHz      2110 MHz     --   2155 MHz     FDD

  5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  824 MHz                       --                              849 MHz       869 MHz      --   894MHz       FDD

  7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2500 MHz                      --                              2570 MHz      2620 MHz     --   2690 MHz     FDD

  8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  880 MHz                       --                              915 MHz       925 MHz      --   960 MHz      FDD

  12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 699 MHz                       --                              716 MHz       729 MHz      --   746 MHz      FDD

  13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 777 MHz                       --                              787 MHz       746 MHz      --   756 MHz      FDD

  19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 830 MHz                       --                              845 MHz       875 MHz      --   890 MHz      FDD

  20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 832 MHz                       --                              862 MHz       791 MHz      --   821 MHz      FDD

  21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1447.9 MHz                    --                              1462.9 MHz    1495.9 MHz   --   1510.9 MHz   FDD

  28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 703 MHz                       --                              748 MHz       758 MHz      --   803 MHz      FDD

  32                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N/A                                           1452 MHz     --   1496 MHz     FDD^1^

  NOTE 1: Restricted to E-UTRA operation when carrier aggregation is configured. The downlink operating band is paired with the uplink operating band (external) of the carrier aggregation configuration that is supporting the configured Pcell.                                                                                                              
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------- ------------ ---- ------------ --------

Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.

5.5 E-UTRA TDD frequency bands
------------------------------

The requirements defined in this specification for E-UTRA TDD apply to
the frequency bands defined in Table 5.5-1.

Table 5.5-1 E-UTRA TDD operating bands

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
| E     | U     | Dow   | D     |       |    |       |       |
| ‑UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex |       |    |       |       |
| Oper  | (UL)  | (DL)  | Mode  |       |    |       |       |
| ating | oper  | oper  |       |       |    |       |       |
| Band  | ating | ating |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | band\ | band\ |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | BS    | BS    |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | rec   | tran  |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | eive\ | smit\ |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | UE    | UE    |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | tra   | re    |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | nsmit | ceive |       |       |    |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
|       | F~UL\ | F~DL\ |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | _low~ | _low~ |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | --    | --    |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | F     | F     |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | ~UL\_ | ~DL\_ |       |       |    |       |       |
|       | high~ | high~ |       |       |    |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
| 38    | 2570  | --    | 2620  | 2570  | -- | 2620  | TDD   |
|       | MHz   |       | MHz   | MHz   |    | MHz   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
| 39    | 1880  | --    | 1920  | 1880  | -- | 1920  | TDD   |
|       | MHz   |       | MHz   | MHz   |    | MHz   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
| 40    | 2300  | --    | 2400  | 2300  | -- | 2400  | TDD   |
|       | MHz   |       | MHz   | MHz   |    | MHz   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
| 41    | 2496  |       | 2690  | 2496  |    | 2690  | TDD   |
|       | MHz   |       | MHz   | MHz   |    | MHz   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
| 42    | 3400  | --    | 3600  | 3400  | -- | 3600  | TDD   |
|       | MHz   |       | MHz   | MHz   |    | MHz   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
| 46    | 5150  | --    | 5925  | 5150  | -- | 5925  | TDD   |
|       | MHz   |       | MHz   | MHz   |    | MHz   | ^1,2^ |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| This  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| is an |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| unlic |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ensed |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| restr |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| icted |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| li    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| cense |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| d-ass |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| isted |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| using |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| Frame |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| Stru  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| cture |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| Type  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| 2: In |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ve    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| rsion |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ifica |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| tion, |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| restr |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| icted |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| E     |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| -UTRA |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| DL    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| when  |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ca    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ggreg |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| onfig |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
| ured. |       |       |       |       |    |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+

Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.

6 Transmitter total radiated power
==================================

6.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE
---------------------------------------------------------

The average measured total radiated power (TRP) of low, mid and high
channel for handheld UE shall be higher than the average TRP requirement
specified in subclauses 6.1.1, 6.1.2 and 6.1.3. The averaging shall be
done in linear scale for the TRP results of both right and left side of
the phantom head in case of beside the head phantom and beside the head
and hand phantom positions. For the hand phantom browsing mode position
the averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRP results of both
right and left hand phantom measurements. Average TRP requirement is
shown in the column "Average" on the requirement tables.

![](media/image3.wmf)

In addition the lowest TRP of each measured channel shall be higher than
minimum TRP requirement specified in subclauses 6.1.1, 6.1.2 and 6.1.3.
Minimum TRP requirement is shown in the column "Min" on the requirement
tables.

![](media/image4.wmf)

### 6.1.1 Beside the head phantom position

Beside the head phantom test method is defined in TR 25.914 \[6\]
subclauses 5.1.1 and 5.1.2.

#### 6.1.1.1 GSM

Handheld MS TRP minimum performance requirements for GMSK in beside the
head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in
Table 6.1.1.1-1.

Table 6.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM
roaming bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary
mechanical mode

  Operating band                             Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 4   Power class 5                                    
  ------------------------------------------ --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ----- --------- ------ --------- -----
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)                                      
                                             Average         Min             Average         Min             Average         Min   Average   Min    Average   Min
  GSM 850                                                                                                                          19,5      17,5             
  GSM 900                                                                                                                          20,5      18,5             
  DCS 1800                                   21              19                                                                                               
  PCS 1900                                   21              19                                                                                               
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.                                                                                                                    

#### 6.1.1.2 UTRA FDD

Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in beside
the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in
Table 6.1.1.2-1.

Table 6.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for
UTRA FDD roaming bands in beside the head phantom position and the
primary mechanical mode

  Operating band                             Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 3bis   Power class 4                    
  ------------------------------------------ --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ --------------- ------ --------- ------
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)                      
                                                                             Average         Min                Average         Min    Average   Min
  I                                          \-              \-              +15             +13                +15             +13    +13       +11
  II                                         \-              \-              +15             +13                +15             +13    +13       +11
  III                                        \-              \-              +15             +13                +15             +13    +13       +11
  IV                                         \-              \-              +15             +13                +15             +13    +13       +11
  V                                          \-              \-              +11             +9                 +11             +9     +9        +7
  VI                                         \-              \-              +11             +9                 +11             +9     +9        +7
  VII                                        \-              \-              +15             +13                +15             +13    +13       +11
  VIII                                       \-              \-              +12             +10                +12             +10    +10       +8
  IX                                         \-              \-              +15             +13                +15             +13    +13       +11
  XIX                                        \-              \-              +11,5           +9,5               +11,5           +9,5   +9,5      +7,5
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.                                                                                                       

#### 6.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD

Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in
beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are
defined in Table 6.1.1.3-1.

Table 6.1.1.3-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for
UTRA LCR TDD roaming bands in beside the head phantom position and the
primary mechanical mode

  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------- ----- --------- -----
  Operating band                                      Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 4                             
                                                      Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)                               
                                                      Average         Min             Average         Min             Average   Min   Average   Min
  a                                                   －              －              +15             +13             －        －    －        －
  b                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  c                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  d                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  e                                                   －              －              +15             +13             －        －    －        －
  f                                                   －              －              +15             +13             －        －    －        －
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM /UTRA LCR TDD.                                                                                             
  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------- ----- --------- -----

### 6.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantom position

Beside the head and hand phantom position is defined in TR 25.914 \[6\]
subclauses 5.1.5 and 5.1.6.

#### 6.1.2.1 UTRA FDD

Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in beside
the head and hand phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are
defined in Table 6.1.2.1-1.

Table 6.1.2.1-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for FDD
roaming bands in beside the head and hand phantom position and the
primary mechanical mode

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| Oper  | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power |     |       |     |
| ating | class | class | class | class | class |     |       |     |
| band  | 1     | 2     | 3     | 3bis  | 4     |     |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+
|       | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power |     |       |     |
|       | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min | Av    | Min |
|       |       |       | erage |       | erage |     | erage |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| I     | \-    | \-    | 13,25 | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| II    | \-    | \-    | 13,25 | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| III   | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| IV    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| V     | \-    | \-    | 9,40  | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VI    | \-    | \-    | 9,40  | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VII   | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VIII  | \-    | \-    | 9,40  | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| IX    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| XIX   |       |       | 9,40  | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dual  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| -mode |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| GSM/  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| UMTS. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| vices |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| nar   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| rower |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 72mm  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| in TR |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 25    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| .914. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Not   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| vices |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| suppo |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| rting |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| CDMA  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| or    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| aggre |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| gated |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| car   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| riers |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| (e.g. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| mul   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ti-ca |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| HSPA, |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| LTE   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Ca    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Agg   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| regat |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ion). |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+

#### 6.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD

Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in
beside the head and hand phantom position and the primary mechanical
mode are defined in Table 6.1.2.2-1.

Table 6.1.2.2-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for
UTRA LCR TDD roaming bands beside the head and hand phantom position and
the primary mechanical mode

  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------- ----- --------- -----
  Operating band                                      Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 4                             
                                                      Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)                               
                                                      Average         Min             Average         Min             Average   Min   Average   Min
  a                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  b                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  c                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  d                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  e                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  f                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM /UTRA LCR TDD.                                                                                             
  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------- ----- --------- -----

#### 6.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD

#### 6.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD

### 6.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position

Hand phantom browsing mode position is defined in TR 25.914 \[6\]
subclauses 5.1.5 and 5.1.7.

#### 6.1.3.1 UTRA FDD

Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in hand
phantom browsing mode position are defined in Table 6.1.3.1-1.

Table 6.1.3.1-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for
UTRA FDD roaming bands in hand phantom browsing mode position

  Operating band                             Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 3bis   Power class 4                   
  ------------------------------------------ --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ --------------- ----- --------- -----
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)                     
                                                                             Average         Min                Average         Min   Average   Min
  I                                          \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  II                                         \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  III                                        \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  IV                                         \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  V                                          \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  VI                                         \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  VII                                        \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  VIII                                       \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  IX                                         \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  XIX                                                                        TBD             TBD                TBD             TBD   TBD       TBD
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.                                                                                                      

#### 6.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD

Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD UE in
hand phantom browsing mode position are defined in Table 6.1.3.2-1.

Table 6.1.3.2-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for
UTRA LCR TDD roaming bands in hand phantom browsing mode position

  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------- ----- --------- -----
  Operating band                                      Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 4                             
                                                      Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)                               
                                                      Average         Min             Average         Min             Average   Min   Average   Min
  a                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  b                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  c                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  d                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  e                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  f                                                   －              －              TBD             TBD             －        －    －        －
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM /UTRA LCR TDD.                                                                                             
  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------- ----- --------- -----

#### 6.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD

#### 6.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD

6.2 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LME
-------------------------------------------------

The average measured TRP of low, mid and high channel for laptop mounted
equipment shall be higher than the average TRP requirement specified in
this subclause. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRP
results. Average TRP requirement is shown in the column "Average" on the
requirement tables.

![](media/image5.wmf)

In addition the lowest TRP of each measured channel shall be higher than
minimum TRP requirement specified in this subclause. Minimum TRP
requirement is shown in the column "Min" on the requirement tables.

![](media/image6.wmf)

LME requirements in this clause are defined to be measured with laptop
ground plane phantom as defined in TR 25.914 \[6\] subclauses 5.1.3 and
5.1.4.

### 6.2.1 GSM

LME TRP minimum performance requirements for GSM with laptop ground
plane phantom in data transfer position are defined in Table 6.2.1-1.

Table 6.2.1-1: LME TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM in the
data transfer position

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Operating band</th>
<th>Power class 1</th>
<th>Power class 2</th>
<th>Power class 3</th>
<th>Power class 4</th>
<th>Power class 5</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>GSM 850</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>GSM 900</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>DCS 1800</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>PCS 1900</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: Applicable for USB plug-in devices.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 6.2.2 UTRA FDD

LME TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD with laptop ground
plane phantom in data transfer position are defined in Table 6.2.2-1.

Table 6.2.2-1: LME TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA FDD in
the data transfer position

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| Oper  | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power |     |       |     |
| ating | class | class | class | class | class |     |       |     |
| band  | 1     | 2     | 3     | 3bis  | 4     |     |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+
|       | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power |     |       |     |
|       | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min | Av    | Min |
|       |       |       | erage |       | erage |     | erage |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| I     | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| II    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| III   | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| IV    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| V     | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VI    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VII   | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VIII  | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| IX    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| XIX   |       |       | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dual  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| -mode |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| GSM/  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| UMTS. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| USB   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| pl    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ug-in |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dev   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ices. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+

### 6.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD

LME TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD with laptop
ground plane phantom in data transfer position are defined in Table
6.2.3-1.

Table 6.2.3-1: LME TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR TDD
in the data transfer position

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| Oper  | Power | Power | Power | Power |       |     |       |     |
| ating | class | class | class | class |       |     |       |     |
| band  | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4     |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       | Power | Power | Power | Power |       |     |       |     |
|       | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min | Av    | Min |
|       | erage |       | erage |       | erage |     | erage |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| a     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| b     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| c     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| d     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| e     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| f     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dual  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| -mode |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| GSM   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| /UTRA |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| LCR   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| TDD.  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| USB   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| pl    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ug-in |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dev   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ices. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+

### 6.2.4 E-UTRA FDD

### 6.2.5 E-UTRA TDD

6.3 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LEE
-------------------------------------------------

The average measured TRP of low, mid and high channel for laptop
embedded equipment shall be higher than the average TRP requirement
specified in this subclause. The averaging shall be done in linear scale
for the TRP results. Average TRP requirement is shown in the column
"Average" on the requirement tables.

![](media/image5.wmf)

In addition the lowest TRP of each measured channel shall be higher than
minimum TRP requirement specified in this subclause. Minimum TRP
requirement is shown in the column "Min" on the requirement tables.

![](media/image6.wmf)

LEE requirements in this clause are defined to be measured as defined in
TR 25.914 \[6\]: subclause 5.3.1 applies to notebook devices, and
subclause 5.3.2 applies to tablet devices.

### 6.3.1 GSM

LEE TRP minimum performance requirements for GSM are defined in Tables
6.3.1-1 and 6.3.1-2.

Table 6.3.1-1: Notebook TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM in
the data transfer position

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Operating band</th>
<th>Power class 1</th>
<th>Power class 2</th>
<th>Power class 3</th>
<th>Power class 4</th>
<th>Power class 5</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>GSM 850</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>GSM 900</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>DCS 1800</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>PCS 1900</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 6.3.1-2: Tablet TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM in the
data transfer position

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Operating band</th>
<th>Power class 1</th>
<th>Power class 2</th>
<th>Power class 3</th>
<th>Power class 4</th>
<th>Power class 5</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td>Power (dBm)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
<td>Average</td>
<td>Min</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>GSM 850</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>GSM 900</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>DCS 1800</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>PCS 1900</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>TBD</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: Applicable for tablet devices.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 6.3.2 UTRA FDD

LEE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD are defined in
Tables 6.3.2-1 and 6.3.2-2.

Table 6.3.2-1: Notebook TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA FDD
in the data transfers position

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| Oper  | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power |     |       |     |
| ating | class | class | class | class | class |     |       |     |
| band  | 1     | 2     | 3     | 3bis  | 4     |     |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+
|       | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power |     |       |     |
|       | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min | Av    | Min |
|       |       |       | erage |       | erage |     | erage |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| I     | \-    | \-    | 19,0  | 17,5  | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| II    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| III   | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| IV    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| V     | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VI    | \-    | \-    | 18,5  | 16,5  | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VII   | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VIII  | \-    | \-    | 18,5  | 16,5  | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| IX    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| XIX   |       |       | 18,5  | 16,5  | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| multi |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| -mode |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| GSM   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| /UMTS |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| /LTE. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| not   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ebook |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dev   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ices. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+

NOTE: TRP minimum performance requirements in table 6.3.2-1 apply to
HSPA and LTE UEs supporting only single carrier operation. Their
applicability to multi-carrier operation is FFS. This is because it has
not been verified whether the UEs measured to derive the requirements
supported carrier aggregation or not.

Table 6.3.2-2: Tablet TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA FDD
in the data transfer position

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| Oper  | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power |     |       |     |
| ating | class | class | class | class | class |     |       |     |
| band  | 1     | 2     | 3     | 3bis  | 4     |     |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+
|       | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power |     |       |     |
|       | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min | Av    | Min |
|       |       |       | erage |       | erage |     | erage |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| I     | \-    | \-    | 19    | 17,5  | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| II    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| III   | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| IV    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| V     | \-    | \-    | 17    | 15,0  | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VI    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VII   | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| VIII  | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| IX    | \-    | \-    | TBD   | TBD   | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| XIX   |       |       | 17    | 15,0  | TBD   | TBD | TBD   | TBD |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dual  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| -mode |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| GSM/  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| UMTS. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ablet |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| vices |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| two   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ante  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| nnas. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+

### 6.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD

LEE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD are defined in
Tables 6.3.3-1 and 6.3.3-2.

Table 6.3.3-1: Notebook TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR
TDD in the data transfer position

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| Oper  | Power | Power | Power | Power |       |     |       |     |
| ating | class | class | class | class |       |     |       |     |
| band  | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4     |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       | Power | Power | Power | Power |       |     |       |     |
|       | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min | Av    | Min |
|       | erage |       | erage |       | erage |     | erage |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| a     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| b     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| c     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| d     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| e     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| f     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dual  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| -mode |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| GSM   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| /UTRA |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| LCR   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| TDD.  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| not   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ebook |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dev   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ices. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+

Table 6.3.3-2: Tablet TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR
TDD in the data transfer position

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| Oper  | Power | Power | Power | Power |       |     |       |     |
| ating | class | class | class | class |       |     |       |     |
| band  | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4     |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       | Power | Power | Power | Power |       |     |       |     |
|       | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
|       | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min   | Av    | Min | Av    | Min |
|       | erage |       | erage |       | erage |     | erage |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| a     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| b     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| c     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| d     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| e     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| f     | －    | －    | TBD   | TBD   | －    | －  | －    | －  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dual  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| -mode |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| GSM   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| /UTRA |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| LCR   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| TDD.  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ablet |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| dev   |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
| ices. |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+

### 6.3.4 E-UTRA FDD

LEE TRP minimum performance requirements for E-UTRA FDD are defined in
Table 6.3.4-1 for Tablet devices.

Table 6.3.4-1: Tablet TRP minimum requirements for E-UTRA FDD in the
data transfer position

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Operating | Power     | Power     | Power     | Power     |   |
| band      | Class 1   | Class 2   | Class 3   | Class 4   |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
|           | Power     | Power     | Power     | Power     |   |
|           | (dBm)     | (dBm)     | (dBm)     | (dBm)     |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Average   | Min       |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 1         |           |           | 18.5      | 17.0      |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 2         |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 3         |           |           | 18.5      | 17.0      |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 4         |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 5         |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 7         |           |           | 18.0      | 16.5      |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 8         |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 12        |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 13        |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 19        |           |           | 17.5      | 15.5      |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 20        |           |           | 17.5      | 15.5      |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 21        |           |           | 17.5      | 16.0      |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 28        |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| NOTE 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| for       |           |           |           |           |   |
| m         |           |           |           |           |   |
| ulti-mode |           |           |           |           |   |
| GSM/      |           |           |           |           |   |
| UMTS/LTE. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Appl      |           |           |           |           |   |
| icability |           |           |           |           |   |
| for       |           |           |           |           |   |
| devices   |           |           |           |           |   |
| s         |           |           |           |           |   |
| upporting |           |           |           |           |   |
| CDMA or   |           |           |           |           |   |
| a         |           |           |           |           |   |
| ggregated |           |           |           |           |   |
| carriers  |           |           |           |           |   |
| (e.g.     |           |           |           |           |   |
| mult      |           |           |           |           |   |
| i-carrier |           |           |           |           |   |
| HSPA, LTE |           |           |           |           |   |
| Carrier   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Agg       |           |           |           |           |   |
| regation) |           |           |           |           |   |
| is FFS.   |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 6.3.5 E-UTRA TDD

7 Receiver total radiated sensitivity
=====================================

7.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE
---------------------------------------------------------

The average measured total radiated sensitivity (TRS) of low, mid and
high channel for handheld UE shall be lower than the average TRS
requirement specified in subclauses 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3. The
averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRS results of both
right and left side of the phantom head in case of beside the head
phantom and beside the head and hand phantom positions. For the hand
phantom browsing mode position the averaging shall be done in linear
scale for the TRS results of both right and left hand phantom
measurements. Average TRS requirement is shown in the column "Average"
on the requirement tables.

![](media/image7.wmf)

In addition the highest TRS of each measured channel shall be lower than
maximum TRS requirement specified in subclauses 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3.
Maximum TRS requirement is shown in the column "Max" on the requirement
tables.

![](media/image8.wmf)

### 7.1.1 Beside the head phantom position

Beside the head phantom test method is defined in TR 25.914 \[6\]
subclauses 5.1.1 and 5.1.2.

#### 7.1.1.1 GSM

Handheld MS TRS minimum performance requirements for GMSK in beside the
head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode for TCH/FS at 2%
class II (RBER) \[3\] are defined in Table 7.1.1.1-1.

Table 7.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirements for GSM roaming
bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical
mode

+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+
| Operating band                      | Unit | \<REFÎ~or~\> |       |
+=====================================+======+==============+=======+
|                                     |      | Average      | Max   |
+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+
| GSM 850                             | dBm  | -98          | -95   |
+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+
| GSM 900                             | dBm  | -97          | -94   |
+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+
| DCS 1800                            | dBm  | -99,5        | -96,5 |
+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+
| PCS 1900                            | dBm  | -98,5        | -95,5 |
+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: For power class 1 and 4     |      |              |       |
| this shall be achieved at the       |      |              |       |
| maximum output power.               |      |              |       |
|                                     |      |              |       |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode    |      |              |       |
| GSM/UMTS.                           |      |              |       |
+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+

#### 7.1.1.2 UTRA FDD

Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in beside
the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode for 1% BER
with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of \[2\] are
defined in Table 7.1.1.2-1.

Table 7.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD
roaming bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary
mechanical mode

+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| Operating band                | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |     |
+===============================+==============+==============+=====+
|                               |              | Average      | Max |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| I                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101         | -98 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| II                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99          | -96 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| III                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | -98          | -95 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| IV                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101         | -98 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| V                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96          | -93 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VI                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96          | -93 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VII                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99          | -96 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VIII                          | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96          | -93 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| IX                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | -100         | -97 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| XIX                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96          | -93 |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: For Power class 3,    |              |              |     |
| 3bis and 4 this shall be      |              |              |     |
| achieved at the maximum       |              |              |     |
| output power.                 |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports both Band III and    |              |              |     |
| Band IX operating             |              |              |     |
| frequencies, the reference    |              |              |     |
| level of TDB dBm TRS          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> \[average and    |              |              |     |
| min\] shall apply for Band    |              |              |     |
| IX.                           |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for        |              |              |     |
| dual-mode GSM/UMTS.           |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 4: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA          |              |              |     |
| configuration 2, average      |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -98       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz and max          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -95       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for  |              |              |     |
| Band II.                      |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 5: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA          |              |              |     |
| configuration 2, average      |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -100      |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz and max          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -97       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for  |              |              |     |
| Band IV.                      |              |              |     |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+

#### 7.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD

Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR FDD in
beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode for 1%
BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of \[2\]
are defined in Table 7.1.1.3-1.

Table 7.1.1.3-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirement for UTRA LCR TDD
roaming bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary
mechanical mode

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------ ------
  Operating band                                     Unit           \<REFÎor\>   
                                                                    Average      Max
  a                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   -101         -100
  b                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  c                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  d                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  e                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   -101         -100
  f                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   -101         -100
  Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.                               
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------ ------

### 7.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position

Beside the head and hand phantom position is defined in TR 25.914 \[6\]
subclauses 5.1.5 and 5.1.6.

#### 7.1.2.1 UTRA FDD

Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in beside
the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical mode for
1% BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of
\[2\] are defined in Table 7.1.2.1-1.

Table 7.1.2.1-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD
roaming bands in beside the head and hand phantoms position and the
primary mechanical mode

+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| Operating band                | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |     |
+===============================+==============+==============+=====+
|                               |              | Average      | Max |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| I                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101,00      | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| II                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99,00       | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| III                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| IV                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| V                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96,75       | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VI                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96,75       | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VII                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VIII                          | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96,75       | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| IX                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| XIX                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96,75       | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: For power class 3,    |              |              |     |
| 3bis and 4 this shall be      |              |              |     |
| achieved at the maximum       |              |              |     |
| output power.                 |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports both Band III and    |              |              |     |
| Band IX operating             |              |              |     |
| frequencies, the reference    |              |              |     |
| level of TDB dBm TRS          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> \[average and    |              |              |     |
| min\] shall apply for Band    |              |              |     |
| IX.                           |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for        |              |              |     |
| dual-mode GSM/UMTS.           |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 4: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA          |              |              |     |
| configuration 2, average      |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -98       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz and max          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -95       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for  |              |              |     |
| Band II.                      |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 5: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA          |              |              |     |
| configuration 2, average      |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -100      |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz and max          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -97       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for  |              |              |     |
| Band IV.                      |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 6: Applicable for        |              |              |     |
| devices narrower than 72mm as |              |              |     |
| defined in TR 25.914.         |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 7: Not applicable for    |              |              |     |
| devices supporting CDMA or    |              |              |     |
| aggregated carriers (e.g.     |              |              |     |
| multi-carrier HSPA, LTE       |              |              |     |
| Carrier Aggregation).         |              |              |     |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+

#### 7.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD

Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in
beside the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical
mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex
C.3 of \[2\] are defined in Table 7.1.2.2-1.

Table 7.1.2.2-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirement for UTRA LCR TDD
roaming bands in beside the head and hand phantoms position and the
primary mechanical mode

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------ -----
  Operating band                                     Unit           \<REFÎor\>   
                                                                    Average      Max
  a                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  b                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  c                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  d                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  e                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  f                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.                               
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------ -----

#### 7.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD

#### 7.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD

### 7.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position

Hand phantom browsing mode position is defined in TR 25.914 \[6\]
subclauses 5.1.5 and 5.1.7.

#### 7.1.3.1 UTRA FDD

Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in hand
phantom browsing mode position and the primary mechanical mode for 1%
BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of \[2\]
are defined in Table 7.1.3.1-1.

Table 7.1.3.1-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD
roaming bands in hand phantom browsing mode position

+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| Operating band                | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |     |
+===============================+==============+==============+=====+
|                               |              | Average      | Max |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| I                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| II                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| III                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| IV                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| V                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VI                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VII                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VIII                          | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| IX                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| XIX                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: For power class 3,    |              |              |     |
| 3bis and 4 this shall be      |              |              |     |
| achieved at the maximum       |              |              |     |
| output power.                 |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports both Band III and    |              |              |     |
| Band IX operating             |              |              |     |
| frequencies, the reference    |              |              |     |
| level of TDB dBm TRS          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> \[average and    |              |              |     |
| min\] shall apply for Band    |              |              |     |
| IX.                           |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for        |              |              |     |
| dual-mode GSM/UMTS.           |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 4: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA          |              |              |     |
| configuration 2, average      |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -98       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz and max          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -95       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for  |              |              |     |
| Band II.                      |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 5: For the UE which      |              |              |     |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA          |              |              |     |
| configuration 2, average      |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -100      |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz and max          |              |              |     |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -97       |              |              |     |
| dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for  |              |              |     |
| Band IV.                      |              |              |     |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+

#### 7.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD

Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in
hand phantom browsing mode position and the primary mechanical mode for
1% BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of
\[2\] are defined in Table 7.1.3.2-1.

Table 7.1.3.2-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirement for UTRA LCR TDD
roaming bands in hand phantom browsing mode position

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------ -----
  Operating band                                     Unit           \<REFÎor\>   
                                                                    Average      Max
  a                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  b                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  c                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  d                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  e                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  f                                                  dBm/1,28 MHz   TBD          TBD
  Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.                               
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------ -----

#### 7.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD

#### 7.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD

7.2 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LME
-------------------------------------------------

The average measured TRS of low, mid and high channel for laptop mounted
equipment shall be lower than average TRS requirement specified in this
subclause. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRS
results. Average TRS requirement is shown in the column "Average" on the
requirement tables.

![](media/image9.wmf)

In addition the highest TRS of each measured channel shall be lower than
maximum TRS requirement specified in this subclause. Maximum TRS
requirement is shown in the column "Max" on the requirement tables.

![](media/image10.wmf)

### 7.2.1 GSM

LME TRS minimum performance requirements for GPRS PDTCH/CS1 at 10% BLER
\[3\] with laptop ground plane phantom in data transfer position are
defined in Table 7.2.1-1.

Table 7.2.1-1: LME TRS minimum requirements for GSM in data transfer
position

+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| Operating band                        | Unit | \<REFÎ~or~\> |     |
+=======================================+======+==============+=====+
|                                       |      | Average      | Max |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| GSM 850                               | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| GSM 900                               | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| DCS 1800                              | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| PCS 1900                              | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: For power class 1 and 4 this  |      |              |     |
| shall be achieved at the maximum      |      |              |     |
| output power.                         |      |              |     |
|                                       |      |              |     |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode      |      |              |     |
| GSM/UMTS.                             |      |              |     |
|                                       |      |              |     |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for USB plug-in    |      |              |     |
| devices.                              |      |              |     |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+

### 7.2.2 UTRA FDD

LME TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD with laptop ground
plane phantom in data transfer position mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps DL
reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of \[2\] are defined in Table
7.2.2-1. \[The values in the tables are Îor with no interference.\]

Table 7.2.2-1: LME TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD in data
transfer position

+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| Operating band                | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |     |
+===============================+==============+==============+=====+
|                               |              | Average      | Max |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| I                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| II                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| III                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| IV                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| V                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VI                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VII                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| VIII                          | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| IX                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| XIX                           | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: For power class 3,    |              |              |     |
| 3bis and 4 this shall be      |              |              |     |
| achieved at the maximum       |              |              |     |
| output power.                 |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for        |              |              |     |
| dual-mode GSM/UMTS.           |              |              |     |
|                               |              |              |     |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for USB    |              |              |     |
| plug-in devices.              |              |              |     |
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+

### 7.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD

LME TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD with laptop
ground plane phantom in data transfer position mode for 1% BER with
12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of \[2\] are
defined in Table 7.2.3-1. \[The values in the tables are Îor with no
interference.\]

Table 7.2.3-1: LME TRS minimum requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in data
transfer position

+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| Operating band                  | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |     |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
|                                 |              | Average    | Max |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| a                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| b                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| c                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| d                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| e                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| f                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for          |              |            |     |
| dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.     |              |            |     |
|                                 |              |            |     |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for USB      |              |            |     |
| plug-in devices.                |              |            |     |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+

### 7.2.4 E-UTRA FDD

### 7.2.5 E-UTRA TDD

7.3 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LEE
-------------------------------------------------

The average measured TRS of low, mid and high channel for laptop
embedded equipment shall be lower than average TRS requirements
specified in this subclause. The averaging shall be done in linear scale
for the TRS results. Average TRS requirement is shown in the column
"Average" on the requirement tables.

![](media/image9.wmf)

In addition the highest TRS of each measured channel shall be lower than
maximum TRS requirement specified in this subclause. Maximum TRS
requirement is shown in the column "Max" on the requirement tables.

![](media/image11.wmf)

### 7.3.1 GSM

LEE TRS minimum performance requirements for GPRS PDTCH/CS1 at 10% BLER
\[3\] are defined in Tables 7.3.1-1 and 7.3.1-2.

Table 7.3.1-1: Notebook TRS minimum requirements for GSM in data
transfer position

+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| Operating band                        | Unit | \<REFÎ~or~\> |     |
+=======================================+======+==============+=====+
|                                       |      | Average      | Max |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| GSM 850                               | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| GSM 900                               | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| DCS 1800                              | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| PCS 1900                              | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: For power class 1 and 4 this  |      |              |     |
| shall be achieved at the maximum      |      |              |     |
| output power.                         |      |              |     |
|                                       |      |              |     |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode      |      |              |     |
| GSM/UMTS.                             |      |              |     |
|                                       |      |              |     |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for notebook       |      |              |     |
| devices.                              |      |              |     |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+

Table 7.3.1-2: Tablet TRS minimum requirements for GSM in data transfer
position

+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| Operating band                        | Unit | \<REFÎ~or~\> |     |
+=======================================+======+==============+=====+
|                                       |      | Average      | Max |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| GSM 850                               | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| GSM 900                               | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| DCS 1800                              | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| PCS 1900                              | dBm  | TBD          | TBD |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: For power class 1 and 4 this  |      |              |     |
| shall be achieved at the maximum      |      |              |     |
| output power.                         |      |              |     |
|                                       |      |              |     |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode      |      |              |     |
| GSM/UMTS.                             |      |              |     |
|                                       |      |              |     |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for tablet         |      |              |     |
| devices.                              |      |              |     |
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+

### 7.3.2 UTRA FDD

LEE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in data transfer
position mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined
in Annex C.3 of \[2\] are defined in Tables 7.3.2-1 and 7.3.3-2. \[The
values in the tables are Îor with no interference.\]

Table 7.3.2-1: Notebook TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD in data
transfer position

+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Operating band             | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |        |
+============================+==============+==============+========+
|                            |              | Average      | Max    |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| I                          | dBm/3,84 MHz | -103,5       | -102,0 |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| II                         | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD    |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| III                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD    |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| IV                         | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD    |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| V                          | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD    |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| VI                         | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101,5       | -99,5  |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| VII                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD    |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| VIII                       | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101,5       | -99,5  |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| IX                         | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD    |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| XIX                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101,5       | -99,5  |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| NOTE 1: For power class 3, |              |              |        |
| 3bis and 4 this shall be   |              |              |        |
| achieved at the maximum    |              |              |        |
| output power.              |              |              |        |
|                            |              |              |        |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for     |              |              |        |
| multi-mode GSM/UMTS/LTE.   |              |              |        |
|                            |              |              |        |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for     |              |              |        |
| notebook devices.          |              |              |        |
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

NOTE: TRS minimum performance requirements in table 7.3.2-1 apply to
HSPA and LTE UEs supporting only single carrier operation. Their
applicability to multi-carrier operation is FFS. This is because it has
not been verified whether the UEs measured to derive the requirements
supported carrier aggregation or not.

Table 7.3.2-2: Tablet TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD in data
transfer position

+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| Operating band            | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |         |
+===========================+==============+==============+=========+
|                           |              | Average      | Max     |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| I                         | dBm/3,84 MHz | -105,75      | -104,25 |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| II                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD     |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| III                       | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD     |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| IV                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD     |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| V                         | dBm/3,84 MHz | -103         | -101,0  |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| VI                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD     |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| VII                       | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD     |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| VIII                      | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD     |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| IX                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          | TBD     |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| XIX                       | dBm/3,84 MHz | -103         | -101,0  |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: For power class   |              |              |         |
| 3, 3bis and 4 this shall  |              |              |         |
| be achieved at the        |              |              |         |
| maximum output power.     |              |              |         |
|                           |              |              |         |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for    |              |              |         |
| dual-mode GSM/UMTS.       |              |              |         |
|                           |              |              |         |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for    |              |              |         |
| tablet devices with two   |              |              |         |
| antennas.                 |              |              |         |
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+

### 7.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD

LEE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in data
transfer position mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as
defined in Annex C.3 of \[2\] are defined in Tables 7.3.3-1 and 7.3.2-2.
\[The values in the tables are Îor with no interference.\]

Table 7.3.3-1: LEE TRS minimum requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in data
transfer position

+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| Operating band                  | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |     |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
|                                 |              | Average    | Max |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| a                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| b                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| c                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| d                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| e                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| f                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for          |              |            |     |
| dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.     |              |            |     |
|                                 |              |            |     |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook |              |            |     |
| devices.                        |              |            |     |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+

Table 7.3.3-2: Tablet TRS minimum requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in data
transfer position

+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| Operating band                  | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |     |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
|                                 |              | Average    | Max |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| a                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| b                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| c                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| d                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| e                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| f                               | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        | TBD |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for          |              |            |     |
| dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.     |              |            |     |
|                                 |              |            |     |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for tablet   |              |            |     |
| devices.                        |              |            |     |
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+

### 7.3.4 E-UTRA FDD

LEE TRS minimum performance requirements for E-UTRA FDD in data transfer
position mode for throughput ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the
reference measurement channels as specified in section 7.3 of TS
36.521-1 \[9\] and Annex A of TS 36.521-1 \[9\] are defined in Table
7.3.4-1 for Tablet devices.

Table 7.3.4-1: Tablet TRS minimum requirements for E-UTRA FDD in data
transfer position

+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| Operating band   | Channel          | Sensitivity      |        |
|                  | bandwidth        | (dBm)            |        |
+==================+==================+==================+========+
|                  |                  | Average          | Max    |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 1                | 10 MHz           | -93.75           | -92.25 |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 2                | 10 MHz           |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 3                | 10 MHz           | -95.0            | -93.5  |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 4                | 10 MHz           |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 5                | 10 MHz           |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 7                | 10 MHz           | -93.5            | -92.0  |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 8                | 10 MHz           |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 12               | 10 MHz           |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 13               | 10 MHz           |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 19               | 10 MHz           | -91.5            | -89.5  |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 20               | 10 MHz           | -92.5            | -90.5  |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 21               | 15 MHz           | -90.0            | -88.5  |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 28               | 10 MHz           |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| 32               | 10 MHz           |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| NOTE 1:          |                  |                  |        |
| Applicable for   |                  |                  |        |
| multi-mode       |                  |                  |        |
| GSM/UMTS/LTE.    |                  |                  |        |
|                  |                  |                  |        |
| NOTE 2:          |                  |                  |        |
| Applicability    |                  |                  |        |
| for devices      |                  |                  |        |
| supporting CDMA  |                  |                  |        |
| or aggregated    |                  |                  |        |
| carriers (e.g.   |                  |                  |        |
| multi-carrier    |                  |                  |        |
| HSPA, LTE        |                  |                  |        |
| Carrier          |                  |                  |        |
| Aggregation) is  |                  |                  |        |
| FFS.             |                  |                  |        |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+

### 7.3.5 E-UTRA TDD

8 Receiver total radiated multi-antenna sensitivity
===================================================

8.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE
---------------------------------------------------------

### 8.1.1 Free Space

Requirements in this section are stated for the free space
configuration, are applicable to handheld devices, and are not
applicable to wrist-worn devices.

For the reference MPAC methodology and the harmonized RTS methodology
defined in \[7\], the average TRMS of free space data mode portrait (FS
DMP), free space data mode landscape (FSDML), and free space data mode
screen up (FS DMSU), as defined in Annex E of TR 37.977 \[7\], when
measured at the mid channel shall be lower than the average TRMS
requirements specified in subclauses 8.1.1.1 and 8.1.1.2. The averaging
shall be done in linear scale for the TRMS results at these DUT
positions. Two average TRMS quantities are calculated from sensitivity
measurements at 70% and 95% throughput, respectively. Average TRMS
requirement are shown in the column "Average, 70" and "Average, 95" on
the requirement tables.

$\text{TRMS}_{\text{average},70} = 10\text{log}\left\lbrack \frac{3}{\left( \frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}\_\text{DMP},70}}{10}}} + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}\_\text{DML},70}}{10}}} + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}\_\text{DMSU},70}}{10}}} \right)} \right\rbrack$

$\text{TRMS}_{\text{average},95} = 10\text{log}\left\lbrack \frac{3}{\left( \frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}\_\text{DMP},95}}{10}}} + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}\_\text{DML},95}}{10}}} + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}\_\text{DMSU},95}}{10}}} \right)} \right\rbrack$

Where

$S_{\text{MODE},x} = 10\text{log}\left\lbrack \frac{12}{\left( \frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{MODE},x,0}}{10}}} + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{MODE},x,1}}{10}}} + \ldots + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{MODE},x,11}}{10}}} \right)} \right\rbrack$

Such that *MODE* is one of {*FS\_DMP, FS\_DML, FS\_DMSU*}, *x* is one of
{*70, 95*}, and {*P~MODE,x,0~, ..., P~MODE,x,11~*} are the measured
sensitivity values at each azimuth position.

For the reference MPAC methodology and the harmonized RTS methodology
defined in \[7\], if 1 azimuth position does not result in a defined
measured sensitivity at 70% or 95% throughput, *S~MODE,70~* or
*S~MODE,95~* are calculated using the 11 measured sensitivities and the
maximum downlink RS-EPRE *P~RS-EPRE-MAX~* (substitution approach) for
the one missing result. If 2 azimuth positions do not result in a
defined measured sensitivity at 95% throughput, *S~MODE,95~* is
calculated using the 10 measured sensitivities and *P~RS-EPRE-MAX~* for
the two missing results. If more azimuth positions result in undefined
values for measured sensitivity at the 70% and/or 95% throughput, then
the TRMS requirement for the corresponding throughput levels has not
been met by such a device. *P~RS-EPRE-MAX~* is defined as -80 dBm/15 kHz
and is the maximum downlink RS-EPRE supported by the test system.

#### 8.1.1.1 E-UTRA FDD

Handheld UE TRMS minimum performance requirements for E-UTRA FDD in free
space and the primary mechanical mode for 70% and 95% DL throughput with
the reference measurement channel defined in Clause 7 of TR 37.977 \[7\]
are defined in Table 8.1.1.1-1.

Table 8.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRMS minimum requirements for E-UTRA FDD
roaming bands in free space and the primary mechanical mode

+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
|                  | Test 1           |              |             |
+==================+==================+==============+=============+
| Channel Model as | SCME urban       |              |             |
| defined in       | micro-cell       |              |             |
| clause 8.2 in    |                  |              |             |
| \[7\]            |                  |              |             |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| Operating band   | Unit             | \<REFÎ~or~\> |             |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
|                  |                  | Average, 70  | Average, 95 |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 1                | dBm/15 kHz       | -94.75       | -92.75      |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 2                | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 3                | dBm/15 kHz       | -93.75       | -91.75      |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 4                | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 5                | dBm/15 kHz       | -91.5        | -89.5       |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 7                | dBm/15 kHz       | -92.5        | -90.5       |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 8                | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 12               | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 13               | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 19               | dBm/15 kHz       | -91.5        | -89.5       |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 20               | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 28               | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 32 (1)           | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1:          |                  |              |             |
| Restricted to    |                  |              |             |
| E-UTRA operation |                  |              |             |
| when carrier     |                  |              |             |
| aggregation is   |                  |              |             |
| configured. The  |                  |              |             |
| downlink         |                  |              |             |
| operating band   |                  |              |             |
| is paired with   |                  |              |             |
| the uplink       |                  |              |             |
| operating band   |                  |              |             |
| (external) of    |                  |              |             |
| the carrier      |                  |              |             |
| aggregation      |                  |              |             |
| configuration    |                  |              |             |
| that is          |                  |              |             |
| supporting the   |                  |              |             |
| configured       |                  |              |             |
| Pcell.           |                  |              |             |
|                  |                  |              |             |
| NOTE 2:          |                  |              |             |
| Applicability    |                  |              |             |
| for devices      |                  |              |             |
| supporting       |                  |              |             |
| 4-receiver       |                  |              |             |
| architectures is |                  |              |             |
| not confirmed.   |                  |              |             |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+

#### 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA TDD

Handheld UE TRMS minimum performance requirements for E-UTRA TDD in free
space and the primary mechanical mode for 70% and 95% DL throughput with
the reference measurement channel defined in Clause 7 of TR 37.977 \[7\]
are defined in Table 8.1.1.2-1.

Table 8.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRMS minimum requirements for E-UTRA TDD
roaming bands in free space and the primary mechanical mode

+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
|                  | Test 1           |              |             |
+==================+==================+==============+=============+
| Channel Model as | SCME urban       |              |             |
| defined in       | micro-cell       |              |             |
| clause 8.2 in    |                  |              |             |
| \[7\]            |                  |              |             |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| Operating band   | Unit             | \<REFÎ~or~\> |             |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
|                  |                  | Average, 70  | Average, 95 |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 38               | dBm/15 kHz       | -95.5        | -93.5       |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 39               | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 40               | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 41               | dBm/15 kHz       | -95.5        | -93.5       |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 42               | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| 46 (1,2)         | dBm/15 kHz       | TBD          | TBD         |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: This     |                  |              |             |
| band is an       |                  |              |             |
| unlicensed band  |                  |              |             |
| restricted to    |                  |              |             |
| l                |                  |              |             |
| icensed-assisted |                  |              |             |
| operation using  |                  |              |             |
| Frame Structure  |                  |              |             |
| Type 3           |                  |              |             |
|                  |                  |              |             |
| NOTE 2: In this  |                  |              |             |
| version of the   |                  |              |             |
| specification,   |                  |              |             |
| restricted to    |                  |              |             |
| E-UTRA DL        |                  |              |             |
| operation when   |                  |              |             |
| carrier          |                  |              |             |
| aggregation is   |                  |              |             |
| configured.      |                  |              |             |
|                  |                  |              |             |
| NOTE 3:          |                  |              |             |
| Applicability    |                  |              |             |
| for devices      |                  |              |             |
| supporting       |                  |              |             |
| 4-receiver       |                  |              |             |
| architectures is |                  |              |             |
| not confirmed.   |                  |              |             |
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+

########  Annex A (normative): Environmental conditions

A.1 General
===========

This normative annex specifies the environmental requirements of the UE.
Within these limits the requirements of the present documents shall be
fulfilled.

A.2 Environmental requirements 
==============================

The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s) and MS(s).

A.2.2 Temperature
-----------------

All the OTA requirements are applicable in room temperature e.g. 25°C.

A.2.3 Voltage
-------------

The UE or MS shall be equipped with a real battery that is fully charged
(in the beginning of the Test).

########  Annex B (informative): Recommended performance 

B.1 General
===========

This annex introduces the concept of recommended OTA performance for
operating bands. This requirement is not mandatory but is recommended.

The concept of recommended performance is to ensure that UE/MS OTA
performance is maximised in order to improve user experience and network
performance. It is recognised that the ability to meet the recommended
performance depends on the number of frequency bands supported by the
UE/MS.

B.2 Transmitter total radiated power
====================================

The OTA TRP performance for GSM, UTRA and E-UTRA should be greater or
equal than the recommended values in this clause.

B.2.1 Recommended performance for handheld UE
---------------------------------------------

### B.2.1.1 Beside the head phantom position

Beside the head phantom test method is defined in TR 25.914 \[6\]
subclauses 5.1.1 and 5.1.2.

#### B.2.1.1.1 GSM

Table B.2.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for GSM in
beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode

  Operating band                             Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 4   Power class 5
  ------------------------------------------ --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)
                                             Average         Average         Average         Average         Average
  GSM 850                                    \-              \-              \-              24              \-
  GSM 900                                    \-              \-              \-              24              \-
  DCS 1800                                   24              \-              \-              \-              \-
  PCS 1900                                   24              \-              \-              \-              \-
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.                                                                   

#### B.2.1.1.2 UTRA FDD

Table B.2.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD
in beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode

  Operating band                             Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 3bis   Power class 4
  ------------------------------------------ --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ ---------------
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                             Average         Average         Average         Average            Average
  I                                          \-              \-              +18             +18                +16
  II                                         \-              \-              +18             +18                +16
  III                                        \-              \-              +18             +18                +16
  IV                                         \-              \-              +18             +18                +16
  V                                          \-              \-              +14             +14                +12
  VI                                         \-              \-              +14,5           +14,5              +12,5
  VII                                        \-              \-              +18             +18                +16
  VIII                                       \-              \-              +15             +15                +13
  IX                                         \-              \-              +18             +18                +16
  XIX                                        \-              \-              +14,5           +14,5              +12,5
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.                                                                      

#### B.2.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.2.1.1.3-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR
TDD in beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode

  -------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ ---------------
  Operating band                                     Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 3bis   Power class 4
                                                     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                                     Average         Average         Average         Average            Average
  a                                                  \-              +18             \-              \-                 \-
  b                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  c                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  d                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  e                                                  \-              +18             \-              \-                 \-
  f                                                  \-              +18             \-              \-                 \-
  Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.                                                                      
  -------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ ---------------

### B.2.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position

#### B.2.1.2.1 UTRA FDD

Table B.2.1.2.1-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD
beside the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical
mode

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class    | class 4  |
| band     |          |          |          | 3bis     |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | \-       | \-       | 16,25    | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| II       | \-       | \-       | 16,25    | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| III      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IV       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| V        | \-       | \-       | 12,40    | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VI       | \-       | \-       | 12,40    | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VII      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VIII     | \-       | \-       | 12,40    | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IX       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| XIX      | \-       | \-       | 12,40    | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| G        |          |          |          |          |          |
| SM/UMTS. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices  |          |          |          |          |          |
| narrower |          |          |          |          |          |
| than     |          |          |          |          |          |
| 72mm as  |          |          |          |          |          |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in TR    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 25.914.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Not      |          |          |          |          |          |
| ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices  |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| CDMA or  |          |          |          |          |          |
| ag       |          |          |          |          |          |
| gregated |          |          |          |          |          |
| carriers |          |          |          |          |          |
| (e.g.    |          |          |          |          |          |
| multi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| -carrier |          |          |          |          |          |
| HSPA,    |          |          |          |          |          |
| LTE      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Carrier  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Aggre    |          |          |          |          |          |
| gation). |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

#### B.2.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.2.1.2.2-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR
TDD in beside the head and hand phantoms position and the primary
mechanical mode

  -------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ ---------------
  Operating band                                     Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 3bis   Power class 4
                                                     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                                                     Average                                            
  a                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  b                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  c                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  d                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  e                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  f                                                  \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.                                                                      
  -------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ ---------------

#### B.2.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD

#### B.2.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD

### B.2.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position

#### B.2.1.3.1 UTRA FDD

Table B.2.1.3.1-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD
in the hand phantom browsing mode position

  Operating band                             Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 3bis   Power class 4
  ------------------------------------------ --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ ---------------
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                                                             Average         Average            Average
  I                                          \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  II                                         \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  III                                        \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  IV                                         \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  V                                          \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  VI                                         \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  VII                                        \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  VIII                                       \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  IX                                         \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  XIX                                        \-              \-              TBD             TBD                TBD
  NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.                                                                      

#### B.2.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.2.1.3.2-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR
TDD in the hand phantom browsing mode position

  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ ---------------
  Operating band                                      Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 3bis   Power class 4
                                                      Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                                                      Average                                            
  a                                                   \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  b                                                   \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  c                                                   \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  d                                                   \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  e                                                   \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  f                                                   \-              TBD             \-              \-                 \-
  Note : Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------------------ ---------------

#### B.2.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD

#### B.2.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD

B.2.2 Recommended performance for LME
-------------------------------------

### B.2.2.1 GSM

Table B.2.2.1-1: LME TRP recommended performance for GSM in data
transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class 4  | class 5  |
| band     |          |          |          |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| GSM 850  | \-       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| GSM 900  | \-       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DCS 1800 | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| PCS 1900 | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| G        |          |          |          |          |          |
| SM/UMTS. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for USB  |          |          |          |          |          |
| plug-in  |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

### B.2.2.2 UTRA FDD

Table B.2.2.2-1: LME TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD in data
transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class    | class 4  |
| band     |          |          |          | 3bis     |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| II       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| III      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IV       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| V        | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VI       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VII      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VIII     | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IX       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| XIX      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| G        |          |          |          |          |          |
| SM/UMTS. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for USB  |          |          |          |          |          |
| plug-in  |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

### B.2.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.2.2.3-1: LME TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in
data transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class    | class 4  |
| band     |          |          |          | 3bis     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| a        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| b        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| c        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| d        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| e        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| f        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| GSM/UTRA |          |          |          |          |          |
| LCR TDD. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for USB  |          |          |          |          |          |
| plug-in  |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

### B.2.2.4 E-UTRA FDD

Table B.2.2.4-1: Tablet TRP recommended performance for E-UTRA FDD in
the data transfer position

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Operating   | Power Class | Power Class | Power Class | Power Class |
| band        | 1           | 2           | 3           | 4           |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
|             | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             |             | Average     |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           |             |             | 21.0        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           |             |             | 20.5        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 5           |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 7           |             |             | 20.0        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 8           |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 12          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 13          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 19          |             |             | 20.0        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20          |             |             | 19.5        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 21          |             |             | 20.0        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 28          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1:     |             |             |             |             |
| Applicable  |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| multi-mode  |             |             |             |             |
| GS          |             |             |             |             |
| M/UMTS/LTE. |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE 2:     |             |             |             |             |
| Ap          |             |             |             |             |
| plicability |             |             |             |             |
| for devices |             |             |             |             |
| supporting  |             |             |             |             |
| CDMA or     |             |             |             |             |
| aggregated  |             |             |             |             |
| carriers    |             |             |             |             |
| (e.g.       |             |             |             |             |
| mu          |             |             |             |             |
| lti-carrier |             |             |             |             |
| HSPA, LTE   |             |             |             |             |
| Carrier     |             |             |             |             |
| A           |             |             |             |             |
| ggregation) |             |             |             |             |
| is FFS.     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

### B.2.2.5 E-UTRA TDD

B.2.3 Recommended performance for LEE
-------------------------------------

### B.2.3.1 GSM

Table B.2.3.1-1: Notebook TRP recommended performance for GSM in data
transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class 4  | class 5  |
| band     |          |          |          |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| GSM 850  | \-       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| GSM 900  | \-       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DCS 1800 | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| PCS 1900 | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| G        |          |          |          |          |          |
| SM/UMTS. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| notebook |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table B.2.3.1-2: Tablet TRP recommended performance for GSM in data
transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class 4  | class 5  |
| band     |          |          |          |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| GSM 850  | \-       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| GSM 900  | \-       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DCS 1800 | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| PCS 1900 | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| G        |          |          |          |          |          |
| SM/UMTS. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| tablet   |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

### B.2.3.2 UTRA FDD

Table B.2.3.2-1: Notebook TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD in
data transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class    | class 4  |
| band     |          |          |          | 3bis     |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | \-       | \-       | 21,5     | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| II       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| III      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IV       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| V        | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VI       | \-       | \-       | 21,0     | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VII      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VIII     | \-       | \-       | 21.0     | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IX       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| XIX      | \-       | \-       | 21,0     | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| mu       |          |          |          |          |          |
| lti-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| GSM/U    |          |          |          |          |          |
| MTS/LTE. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| notebook |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE: TRP minimum performance requirements in table B.2.3.2-1apply to
HSPA and LTE UEs supporting only single carrier operation. Their
applicability to multi-carrier operation is FFS. This is because it has
not been verified whether the UEs measured to derive the requirements
supported carrier aggregation or not.

Table B.2.3.2-2: Tablet TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD in data
transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class    | class 4  |
| band     |          |          |          | 3bis     |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | \-       | \-       | 21,5     | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| II       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| III      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IV       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| V        | \-       | \-       | 19,5     | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VI       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VII      | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| VIII     | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IX       | \-       | \-       | TBD      | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| XIX      | \-       | \-       | 19,5     | TBD      | TBD      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| G        |          |          |          |          |          |
| SM/UMTS. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| tablet   |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices  |          |          |          |          |          |
| with two |          |          |          |          |          |
| a        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ntennas. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

### B.2.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.2.3.3-1: Notebook TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD
in data transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class    | class 4  |
| band     |          |          |          | 3bis     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| a        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| b        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| c        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| d        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| e        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| f        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| GSM/UTRA |          |          |          |          |          |
| LCR TDD. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| notebook |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table B.2.3.3-2: Tablet TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in
data transfer position

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| O        | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
| perating | class 1  | class 2  | class 3  | class    | class 4  |
| band     |          |          |          | 3bis     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    | Power    |
|          | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    | (dBm)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  | Average  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| a        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| b        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| c        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| d        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| e        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| f        | \-       | TBD      | \-       | \-       | \-       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ual-mode |          |          |          |          |          |
| GSM/UTRA |          |          |          |          |          |
| LCR TDD. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| tablet   |          |          |          |          |          |
| devices. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

### B.2.3.4 E-UTRA FDD

### B.2.3.5 E-UTRA TDD

B.3 Receiver total radiated sensitivity
=======================================

The OTA TRS performance for GSM, UTRA and E-UTRA should be lower or
equal than the recommended values shown in this clause.

B.3.1 Recommended performance for handheld UE
---------------------------------------------

### B.3.1.1 Beside the head phantom position

Beside the head phantom test method is defined in TR 25.914 \[6\]
subclauses 5.1.1 and 5.1.2.

#### B.3.1.1.1 GSM

Table B.3.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRS recommended performance for GSM in
beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode.

+------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| Operating band                           | Unit | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                          |      |              |
|                                          |      | Average      |
+==========================================+======+==============+
| GSM 850                                  | dBm  | -100,5       |
+------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| GSM 900                                  | dBm  | -100,5       |
+------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| DCS 1800                                 | dBm  | -103,5       |
+------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| PCS 1900                                 | dBm  | -103,5       |
+------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. |      |              |
+------------------------------------------+------+--------------+

#### B.3.1.1.2 UTRA FDD

Table B.3.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRS recommended performance for FDD in
beside the head phantom position for the primary mechanical mode

+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| Operating band                       | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
+======================================+==============+==============+
| I                                    | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| II                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | -102         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| III                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IV                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| V                                    | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99,5        |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VI                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VII                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | -102         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VIII                                 | dBm/3,84 MHz | -100         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IX                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | -103         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| XIX                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101         |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: For the UE which supports    |              |              |
| DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average |              |              |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -101 dBm/3.84    |              |              |
| shall apply for Band II.             |              |              |
|                                      |              |              |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which supports    |              |              |
| DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average |              |              |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -103 dBm/3.84    |              |              |
| MHz shall apply for Band IV.         |              |              |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+

#### B.3.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.3.1.1.3-1: Handheld UE TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR
TDD in beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode.

+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| Operating band                                   | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |
|                                                  |              |            |
|                                                  |              | Average    |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| a                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | -105       |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| b                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| c                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| d                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| e                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | -105       |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| f                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | -105       |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. |              |            |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+

### B.3.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position

#### B.3.1.2.1 UTRA FDD

Table B.3.1.2.1-1: TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in the
beside the head and hand phantoms position for the primary mechanical
mode

+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| Operating band                       | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                      |              |              |
|                                      |              | Average      |
+======================================+==============+==============+
| I                                    | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104,00      |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| II                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | -102,00      |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| III                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IV                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| V                                    | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99,75       |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VI                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VII                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VIII                                 | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99,75       |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IX                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| XIX                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: For the UE which supports    |              |              |
| DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average |              |              |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -101 dBm/3,84    |              |              |
| shall apply for Band II.             |              |              |
|                                      |              |              |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which supports    |              |              |
| DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average |              |              |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -103 dBm/3,84    |              |              |
| MHz shall apply for Band IV.         |              |              |
|                                      |              |              |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for devices       |              |              |
| narrower than 72mm as defined in TR  |              |              |
| 25.914                               |              |              |
|                                      |              |              |
| NOTE 4: Not applicable for devices   |              |              |
| supporting CDMA or aggregated        |              |              |
| carriers (e.g. multi-carrier HSPA,   |              |              |
| LTE Carrier Aggregation)             |              |              |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+

#### B.3.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.3.1.2.2-1: TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in the
beside the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical
mode

+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| Operating band                                   | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |
|                                                  |              |            |
|                                                  |              | Average    |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| a                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| b                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| c                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| d                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| e                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| f                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. |              |            |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+

#### B.3.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD

#### B.3.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD

### B.3.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position

#### B.3.1.3.1 UTRA FDD

Table B.3.1.3.1-1: TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in hand
phantom browsing mode position

+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| Operating band                       | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                      |              |              |
|                                      |              | Average      |
+======================================+==============+==============+
| I                                    | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| II                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| III                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IV                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| V                                    | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VI                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VII                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VIII                                 | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IX                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| XIX                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: For the UE which supports    |              |              |
| DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average |              |              |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -101 dBm/3,84    |              |              |
| shall apply for Band II.             |              |              |
|                                      |              |              |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which supports    |              |              |
| DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average |              |              |
| \<REFÎor\> level of -103 dBm/3,84    |              |              |
| MHz shall apply for Band IV.         |              |              |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+

#### B.3.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.3.1.3.2-1: TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in hand
phantom browsing mode position

+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| Operating band                                   | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |
|                                                  |              |            |
|                                                  |              | Average    |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| a                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| b                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| c                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| d                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| e                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| f                                                | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. |              |            |
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+

#### B.3.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD

#### B.3.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD

B.3.2 Recommended performance for LME
-------------------------------------

### B.3.2.1 GSM

Table B.3.2.1-1: LME TRS recommended performance for GSM in the data
transfer position

+---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| Operating band                              | Unit | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                             |      |              |
|                                             |      | Average      |
+=============================================+======+==============+
| GSM 850                                     | dBm  | TBD          |
+---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| GSM 900                                     | dBm  | TBD          |
+---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| DCS 1800                                    | dBm  | TBD          |
+---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| PCS 1900                                    | dBm  | TBD          |
+---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.  |      |              |
|                                             |      |              |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for USB plug-in devices. |      |              |
+---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+

### B.3.2.2 UTRA FDD

Table B.3.2.2-1: LME TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in the
data transfer position

+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| Operating band                            | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                           |              |              |
|                                           |              | Average      |
+===========================================+==============+==============+
| I                                         | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| II                                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| III                                       | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IV                                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| V                                         | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VI                                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VII                                       | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VIII                                      | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IX                                        | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| XIX                                       | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| NOTE: Applicable for USB plug-in devices. |              |              |
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+

### B.3.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.3.2.3-1: LME TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in the
data transfer position

+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| Operating band                                     | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |
|                                                    |              |            |
|                                                    |              | Average    |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| a                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| b                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| c                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| d                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| e                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| f                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. |              |            |
|                                                    |              |            |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for USB plug-in devices.        |              |            |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+

### B.3.2.4 E-UTRA FDD

### B.3.2.5 E-UTRA TDD

B.3.3 Recommended performance for LEE
-------------------------------------

### B.3.3.1 GSM

Table B.3.3.1-1: Notebook TRS recommended performance for GSM in the
data transfer position

+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| Operating band                             | Unit | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                            |      |              |
|                                            |      | Average      |
+============================================+======+==============+
| GSM 850                                    | dBm  | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| GSM 900                                    | dBm  | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| DCS 1800                                   | dBm  | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| PCS 1900                                   | dBm  | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. |      |              |
|                                            |      |              |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices.   |      |              |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+

Table B.3.3.1-2: Tablet TRS recommended performance for GSM in the data
transfer position

+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| Operating band                             | Unit | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                            |      |              |
|                                            |      | Average      |
+============================================+======+==============+
| GSM 850                                    | dBm  | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| GSM 900                                    | dBm  | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| DCS 1800                                   | dBm  | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| PCS 1900                                   | dBm  | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. |      |              |
|                                            |      |              |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for tablet devices.     |      |              |
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+

### B.3.3.2 UTRA FDD

Table B.3.3.2-1: Notebook TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in
the data transfer position

+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| Operating band                                  | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                                 |              |              |
|                                                 |              | Average      |
+=================================================+==============+==============+
| I                                               | dBm/3,84 MHz | -106.5       |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| II                                              | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| III                                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IV                                              | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| V                                               | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VI                                              | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104.5       |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VII                                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VIII                                            | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104.5       |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IX                                              | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| XIX                                             | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104.5       |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for multi-mode GSM/UMTS/LTE. |              |              |
|                                                 |              |              |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices.        |              |              |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+

NOTE: TRS minimum performance requirements in table B.3.3.2-1 apply to
HSPA and LTE UEs supporting only single carrier operation. Their
applicability to multi-carrier operation is FFS. This is because it has
not been verified whether the UEs measured to derive the requirements
supported carrier aggregation or not.

Table B.3.3.2-2: Tablet TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in the
data transfer position

+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| Operating band                       | Unit         | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                                      |              |              |
|                                      |              | Average      |
+======================================+==============+==============+
| I                                    | dBm/3,84 MHz | -108,75      |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| II                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| III                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IV                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| V                                    | dBm/3,84 MHz | -106,0       |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VI                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VII                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| VIII                                 | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| IX                                   | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD          |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| XIX                                  | dBm/3,84 MHz | -106,0       |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
| NOTE: Applicable for tablet devices  |              |              |
| with two antennas.                   |              |              |
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+

### B.3.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD

Table B.3.3.3-1: Notebook TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD
in the data transfer position

+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| Operating band                                     | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |
|                                                    |              |            |
|                                                    |              | Average    |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| a                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| b                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| c                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| d                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| e                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| f                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. |              |            |
|                                                    |              |            |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices.           |              |            |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+

Table B.3.3.3-2: Tablet TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in
the data transfer position

+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| Operating band                                     | Unit         | \<REFÎor\> |
|                                                    |              |            |
|                                                    |              | Average    |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| a                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| b                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| c                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| d                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| e                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| f                                                  | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD        |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. |              |            |
|                                                    |              |            |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for tablet devices.             |              |            |
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+

### B.3.3.4 E-UTRA FDD

Table B.3.3.4-1: Tablet TRS recommended performance for E-UTRA FDD in
data transfer position

+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Operating band             | Channel bandwidth | Sensitivity (dBm) |
+============================+===================+===================+
|                            |                   | Average           |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 1                          | 10 MHz            | -96.0             |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 2                          | 10 MHz            |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 3                          | 10 MHz            | -97.0             |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 4                          | 10 MHz            |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 5                          | 10 MHz            |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 7                          | 10 MHz            | -95.75            |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 8                          | 10 MHz            |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 12                         | 10 MHz            |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 13                         | 10 MHz            |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 19                         | 10 MHz            | -94.5             |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 20                         | 10 MHz            | -94.5             |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 21                         | 15 MHz            | -93.0             |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 28                         | 10 MHz            |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 32                         | 10 MHz            |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| NOTE 1: Applicable for     |                   |                   |
| multi-mode GSM/UMTS/LTE.   |                   |                   |
|                            |                   |                   |
| NOTE 2: Applicability for  |                   |                   |
| devices supporting CDMA or |                   |                   |
| aggregated carriers (e.g.  |                   |                   |
| multi-carrier HSPA, LTE    |                   |                   |
| Carrier Aggregation) is    |                   |                   |
| FFS.                       |                   |                   |
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+

### B.3.3.5 E-UTRA TDD

########  Annex C (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                            
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                               **New version**
  2014-03              RAN4\#70bis   R4-141169                                TP to TS37.144 on adding tables of performance requirements for tablet devices                                                    0.1.0
  2015-04              RAN4\#74bis   R4-151168                                TP to TS 37.144 on adding UTRA FDD LEE TRP/TRS requirements for Bands I and VIII                                                  0.2.0
  2015-04              RAN4\#74bis   R4-151215                                TP to TS 37.144 on a skeleton for MIMO OTA requirements                                                                           0.2.0
  2015-05              RAN4\#75      R4-152459                                LEE requirement for UMTS Band VI and XIX                                                                                          0.3.0
  2016-02              RAN4\#78      R4-161467                                TP for TS 37.144 Introduction of new TRP/TRS requirements                                                                         1.0.0
  2016-04              RAN4\#78bis   R4-163122                                Addition of missing Tablet requirements                                                                                           1.1.0
  2016-05              RAN4\#79      R4-164969                                TP to to TS 37.144 UTRA handheld TRP/TRS agreements                                                                               2.0.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       R4-164811                                TP to TS 37.144 on MIMO OTA performance requirement structure                                                                     2.1.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       R4-164812                                TP to TS 37.144 on MIMO OTA test case parameters                                                                                  2.1.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72                                                TR approved by RAN plenary                                                                                                        13.0.0
  2016-08              RAN\#72                                                Automatic upgrade to Rel-14 (Accidentally approved as Rel-13 at RAN\#72, and later promoted with no technical change to Rel-14)   14.0.0
  2016-09              RP-73         RP-161620   0001     1         F         Applicability of UTRA Requirements                                                                                                14.1.0
  2016-12              RP-74         RP-162397   0003     \-        F         Introduction of UTRA BHH TRP and TRS Requirements for Band VI and XIX                                                             14.2.0
  2016-12              RP-74         RP-162389   0004     \-        F         Correction of TRMS test case parameters                                                                                           14.2.0
  2017-06              RP-76         RP-171271   0005     1         B         Finalization of LTE Tablet TRP/TRS for bands 1, 3, 7, 19, 20, 21                                                                  14.3.0
  2017-09              RP-77         RP-171931   0008     1         F         CR on maximum RS-EPRE level                                                                                                       14.4.0
  2017-09              RP-77         RP-171931   0011               B         MIMO OTA TRMS requirements for PS1                                                                                                14.4.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172583   0013     1         F         CR to 37.144 on handset TRMS                                                                                                      14.5.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180295   0014     1         F         Inclusion of TDD RTS as harmonized method in 37.144                                                                               14.6.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181115   0015     1         F         Inclusion of FDD RTS as harmonized method in 37.144                                                                               14.7.0
  2018-06              SA\#80        \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                                                                                    15.0.0
  2020-06              SA\#88        \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                                                                    **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
