3GPP TS 37.324 V16.3.0 (2021-06)

Technical Specification

**3rd Generation Partnership Project;**

**Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;**

E-UTRA and NR;

**Service Data Adaptation Protocol (SDAP) specification**

(Release 16)

The present document has been developed within the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP..\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and Reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2021, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 5

1 Scope 6

2 References 6

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 6

3.1 Definitions 6

3.2 Abbreviations 6

4 General 7

4.1 Introduction 7

4.2 SDAP architecture 7

4.2.1 SDAP structure 7

4.2.2 SDAP entities 8

4.3 Services 9

4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers 9

4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers 9

4.4 Functions 9

5 SDAP procedures 9

5.1 SDAP entity handling 9

5.1.1 SDAP entity establishment 9

5.1.2 SDAP entity release 9

5.2 Data transfer 10

5.2.1 Uplink 10

5.2.2 Downlink 10

5.2.3 SL transmission 10

5.2.4 SL reception 11

5.3 QoS flow to DRB mapping 11

5.3.1 Configuration 11

5.3.2 Reflective mapping 11

5.3.3 DRB release 12

5.4 RQI handling 12

5.5 PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping 12

5.5.1 Configuration 12

5.5.2 SL-DRB release 13

6 Protocol data units, formats, and parameters 13

6.1 Protocol data units 13

6.1.1 Data PDU 13

6.1.2 Control PDU 13

6.2 Formats 13

6.2.1 General 13

6.2.2 Data PDU 13

6.2.2.1 Data PDU without SDAP header 13

6.2.2.2 DL Data PDU with SDAP header 14

6.2.2.3 UL Data PDU with SDAP header 14

6.2.2.4 SL Data PDU with SDAP header for unicast of NR sidelink
communication 14

6.2.3 End-Marker Control PDU 15

6.3 Parameters 15

6.3.1 General 15

6.3.2 Data 15

6.3.3 D/C 15

6.3.4 QFI 15

6.3.5 R 16

6.3.6 RQI 16

6.3.7 RDI 16

6.3.8 PQFI 16

Annex A (informative): Change history 17

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the Service Data Adaptation Protocol
(SDAP) for a UE with connection to the 5G-CN or for a UE in NR sidelink
communication.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NG Radio Access Network; Overall description\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 24.587: \"Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services in 5G
System (5GS); Stage 3\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule**: a mapping rule determining on
which SL-DRB packets of a PC5 QoS flow shall be carried.

**QoS flow to DRB mapping rule**: a mapping rule determining on which
DRB packets of a QoS flow shall be carried.

**Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping**: a QoS flow to DRB mapping scheme
where a UE monitors the QoS flow to DRB mapping rule in the DL, and
applies it to in the UL.

**NR sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling at least V2X
communication as defined in TS 23.287 \[5\], between two or more nearby
UEs, using NR technology but not traversing any network node.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR
21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

PQFI PC5 QoS Flow ID

QFI QoS Flow ID

RDI Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping Indication

RQI Reflective QoS Indication

SDAP Service Data Adaptation Protocol

SL Sidelink

SL-DRB Sidelink Data Radio Bearer

4 General
=========

4.1 Introduction
----------------

The objective is to describe the SDAP architecture and the SDAP entity
from a functional point of view. The specified functionality only
applies to UE with connection to the 5G-CN and UE in NR sidelink
communication.

4.2 SDAP architecture
---------------------

### 4.2.1 SDAP structure

Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates one possible structure for the SDAP sublayer;
it should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the radio
interface protocol architecture defined in TS 38.300 \[2\].

Figure 4.2.1-1: SDAP sublayer, structure view

The SDAP sublayer is configured by RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]). The SDAP
sublayer maps QoS flows to DRBs. One or more QoS flows may be mapped
onto one DRB. One QoS flow is mapped onto only one DRB at a time in the
UL.

In NR sidelink communication, the SDAP sublayer maps PC5 QoS flows to
SL-DRBs. One or more PC5 QoS flows may be mapped onto one SL-DRB. One
PC5 QoS flow is mapped onto only one SL-DRB at a time in the NR sidelink
for transmission.

### 4.2.2 SDAP entities

The SDAP entities are located in the SDAP sublayer. Several SDAP
entities may be defined for a UE. There is an SDAP entity configured for
each individual PDU session for NR Uu. For NR sidelink, SDAP entity is
configured per Destination Layer-2 ID and cast type in the UE.

An SDAP entity receives/delivers SDAP SDUs from/to upper layers and
submits/receives SDAP data PDUs to/from its peer SDAP entity via lower
layers.

\- At the transmitting side, when an SDAP entity receives an SDAP SDU
from upper layers, it constructs the corresponding SDAP data PDU and
submits it to lower layers;

\- At the receiving side, when an SDAP entity receives an SDAP data PDU
from lower layers, it retrieves the corresponding SDAP SDU and delivers
it to upper layers.

Figure 4.2.2-1 illustrates the functional view of the SDAP entity for
the SDAP sublayer; it should not restrict implementation. The figure is
based on the radio interface protocol architecture defined in TS 38.300
\[2\].

Figure 4.2.2-1: SDAP layer, functional view

Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping is performed at UE, as specified in
the clause 5.3.2, if DL SDAP header is configured.

For NR sidelink communication, reflective PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping
is not supported.

4.3 Services
------------

### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers

The SDAP sublayer provides its service to the user plane upper layers.
The following services are provided by SDAP to upper layers:

\- transfer of user plane data.

### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers

An SDAP entity expects the following services from lower layers:

\- user plane data transfer service;

\- in-order delivery except when out of order delivery is configured by
RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]).

4.4 Functions
-------------

The SDAP sublayer supports the following functions:

\- transfer of user plane data;

\- mapping between a QoS flow and a DRB for both DL and UL;

\- mapping between a PC5 QoS flow and a SL-DRB for NR sidelink
communication;

\- marking QoS flow ID in both DL and UL packets;

\- marking PC5 QoS flow ID in unicast of NR sidelink communication
packets;

\- reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping for the UL SDAP data PDUs.

5 SDAP procedures
=================

5.1 SDAP entity handling
------------------------

### 5.1.1 SDAP entity establishment

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) requests an SDAP entity establishment, the UE
shall:

\- establish an SDAP entity;

\- follow the procedures in clause 5.2.1 and 5.2.2.

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) requests establishment of an SDAP entity for
unicast, groupcast or broadcast of NR sidelink communication, the UE
shall:

\- establish an SDAP entity;

\- follow the procedures in clauses 5.2.3 and 5.2.4.

### 5.1.2 SDAP entity release

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) requests an SDAP entity release, the UE
shall:

\- release the SDAP entity.

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) requests release of an SDAP entity for
unicast, groupcast or broadcast of NR sidelink communication, the UE
shall:

\- release the SDAP entity.

5.2 Data transfer
-----------------

### 5.2.1 Uplink

At the reception of an SDAP SDU from upper layer for a QoS flow, the
transmitting SDAP entity shall:

\- if there is no stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow
as specified in the clause 5.3:

\- map the SDAP SDU to the default DRB;

\- else:

\- map the SDAP SDU to the DRB according to the stored QoS flow to DRB
mapping rule;

\- if the DRB to which the SDAP SDU is mapped is configured by RRC (TS
38.331 \[3\]) with the presence of SDAP header,

\- construct the UL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause 6.2.2.3;

\- else:

\- construct the UL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause 6.2.2.1;

\- submit the constructed UL SDAP data PDU to the lower layers.

NOTE 1: UE behaviour is not defined if there is neither a default DRB
nor a stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow.

NOTE 2: Default DRB is always configured with UL SDAP header (TS 38.331
\[3\]).

### 5.2.2 Downlink

At the reception of an SDAP data PDU from lower layers for a QoS flow,
the receiving SDAP entity shall:

\- if the DRB from which this SDAP data PDU is received is configured by
RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) with the presence of SDAP header:

\- perform reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping as specified in the clause
5.3.2;

\- perform RQI handling as specified in the clause 5.4;

\- retrieve the SDAP SDU from the DL SDAP data PDU as specified in the
clause 6.2.2.2.

\- else:

\- retrieve the SDAP SDU from the DL SDAP data PDU as specified in the
clause 6.2.2.1;

\- deliver the retrieved SDAP SDU to the upper layer.

### 5.2.3 SL transmission

At the reception of an SDAP SDU from upper layer for a PC5 QoS flow, the
transmitting SDAP entity shall:

\- if there is no stored PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule for the PC5
QoS flow as specified in the clause 5.5:

\- map the SDAP SDU to the default SL-DRB;

\- else:

\- map the SDAP SDU to the SL-DRB according to the stored PC5 QoS flow
to SL-DRB mapping rule;

\- if the SL-DRB to which the SDAP SDU is mapped is configured by RRC
(TS 38.331 \[3\]) with the presence of SDAP header:

\- construct the SL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause 6.2.2.4;

\- else:

\- construct the SL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause 6.2.2.1;

\- submit the constructed SL SDAP data PDU to the lower layers.

### 5.2.4 SL reception

At the reception of an SDAP data PDU from lower layers for a PC5 QoS
flow, the receiving SDAP entity shall:

\- if the SL-DRB from which this SDAP data PDU is received is configured
by RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) with the presence of SDAP header:

\- retrieve the SDAP SDU from the SL SDAP data PDU as specified in the
clause 6.2.2.4;

\- else:

\- retrieve the SDAP SDU from the SL SDAP data PDU as specified in the
clause 6.2.2.1;

\- deliver the retrieved SDAP SDU to the upper layer.

5.3 QoS flow to DRB mapping
---------------------------

### 5.3.1 Configuration

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) configures an UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule
for a QoS flow, the SDAP entity shall:

\- if the SDAP entity has already been established and there is no
stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow and a default DRB
is configured:

\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause
6.2.3, for the QoS flow;

\- map the end-marker control PDU to the default DRB;

\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers.

\- if the stored UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule is different from the
configured QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow and the DRB
according to the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule is configured by
RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) with the presence of UL SDAP header:

\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause
6.2.3, for the QoS flow;

\- map the end-marker control PDU to the DRB according to the stored QoS
flow to DRB mapping rule;

\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers.

\- store the configured UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS
flow.

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) releases an UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule
for a QoS flow, the SDAP entity shall:

\- remove the UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow.

### 5.3.2 Reflective mapping

For each received DL SDAP data PDU with RDI set to 1, the SDAP entity
shall:

\- process the QFI field in the SDAP header and determine the QoS flow;

\- if there is no stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow
and a default DRB is configured:

\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause
6.2.3, for the QoS flow;

\- map the end-marker control PDU to the default DRB;

\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers;

\- if the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow is
different from the QoS flow to DRB mapping of the DL SDAP data PDU and
the DRB according to the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule is
configured by RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) with the presence of UL SDAP header:

\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause
6.2.3, for the QoS flow;

\- map the end-marker control PDU to the DRB according to the stored QoS
flow to DRB mapping rule;

\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers;

\- store the QoS flow to DRB mapping of the DL SDAP data PDU as the QoS
flow to DRB mapping rule for the UL.

### 5.3.3 DRB release

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) indicates that a DRB is released, the SDAP
entity shall:

\- remove all QoS flow to DRB mappings associated with the released DRB
based on the clauses 5.3.1 and 5.3.2.

5.4 RQI handling
----------------

For each received DL SDAP data PDU with RQI set to 1, the SDAP entity
shall:

\- inform the NAS layer of the RQI and QFI.

5.5 PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping
----------------------------------

### 5.5.1 Configuration

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) configures a PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping
rule for a PC5 QoS flow, the SDAP entity shall:

\- for unicast of NR sidelink communication, if the SDAP entity has
already been established and there is no stored SL-DRB mapping rule for
the PC5 QoS flow and a default SL-DRB is configured:

\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause
6.2.3, for the PC5 QoS flow;

\- map the end-marker control PDU to the default SL-DRB;

\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers;

\- for unicast of NR sidelink communication, if the stored PC5 QoS flow
to SL-DRB mapping rule is different from the configured PC5 QoS flow to
SL-DRB mapping rule for the PC5 QoS flow and the SL-DRB according to the
stored PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule is configured by RRC (TS
38.331 \[3\]) with the presence of SL SDAP header:

\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause
6.2.3, for the PC5 QoS flow;

\- map the end-marker control PDU to the SL-DRB according to the stored
PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule;

\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers;

\- store the configured PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule for the PC5
QoS flow.

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) releases a PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping
rule for a PC5 QoS flow, the SDAP entity shall:

\- remove the PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule for the PC5 QoS flow.

### 5.5.2 SL-DRB release

When RRC (TS 38.331 \[3\]) indicates that an SL-DRB is released, the
SDAP entity shall:

\- remove all PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mappings associated with the
released SL-DRB based on the clause 5.5.1.

6 Protocol data units, formats, and parameters
==============================================

6.1 Protocol data units
-----------------------

### 6.1.1 Data PDU

The SDAP Data PDU is used to convey one or more of followings:

\- SDAP header;

\- user plane data.

### 6.1.2 Control PDU

a\) End-Marker Control PDU

End-Marker control PDU is used by the SDAP entity at UE to indicate that
it stops the mapping of the SDAP SDU of the QoS flow indicated by the
QFI/PQFI to the DRB/SL-DRB on which the End-Marker control PDU is
transmitted.

6.2 Formats
-----------

### 6.2.1 General

A SDAP PDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8
bits) in length. In the figures in clause 6.2, bit strings are
represented by tables in which the first and most significant bit is the
left most bit of the first line of the table, the last and least
significant bit is the rightmost bit of the last line of the table, and
more generally the bit string is to be read from left to right and then
in the reading order of the lines.

SDAP SDUs are bit strings that are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8
bits) in length. An SDAP SDU is included into a SDAP PDU from the first
bit onward.

For groupcast and broadcast of NR sidelink communication, only SDAP data
PDU without SDAP header is supported.

### 6.2.2 Data PDU

#### 6.2.2.1 Data PDU without SDAP header

An SDAP PDU consists only of a data field and does not consist of any
SDAP header, as described in Figure 6.2.2.1-1.

Figure 6.2.2.1-1: SDAP Data PDU format without SDAP header

#### 6.2.2.2 DL Data PDU with SDAP header

Figure 6.2.2.2 -- 1 shows the format of SDAP Data PDU of DL with SDAP
header being configured.

Figure 6.2.2.2-1: DL SDAP Data PDU format with SDAP header

#### 6.2.2.3 UL Data PDU with SDAP header

Figure 6.2.2.3 -- 1 shows the format of SDAP Data PDU of UL with SDAP
header being configured.

Figure 6.2.2.3-1: UL SDAP Data PDU format with SDAP header

#### 6.2.2.4 SL Data PDU with SDAP header for unicast of NR sidelink communication

Figure 6.2.2.4--1 shows the format of SDAP Data PDU for unicast of NR
sidelink communication with SDAP header being configured.

Figure 6.2.2.4-1: SL SDAP Data PDU format with SDAP header for unicast
of NR sidelink communication

### 6.2.3 End-Marker Control PDU

Figure 6.2.3-1 shows the format of End-Marker Control PDU.

Figure 6.2.3-1: End-Marker Control PDU

6.3 Parameters
--------------

### 6.3.1 General

If not otherwise mentioned in the definition of each field, then the
bits in the parameters shall be interpreted as follows: the left most
bit is the first and most significant bit and the right most bit is the
last and least significant bit.

Unless otherwise mentioned, integers are encoded in standard binary
encoding for unsigned integers. In all cases the bits appear ordered
from MSB to LSB when read in the PDU.

### 6.3.2 Data

Length: Variable

This field includes the SDAP SDU.

### 6.3.3 D/C

Length: 1 bit,

The D/C bit indicates whether the SDAP PDU is an SDAP Data PDU or an
SDAP Control PDU.

Table 6.3.3-1: D/C field

  ----- -------------
  Bit   Description
  0     Control PDU
  1     Data PDU
  ----- -------------

### 6.3.4 QFI

Length: 6 bits

The QFI field indicates the ID of the QoS flow (TS 23.501 \[4\]) to
which the SDAP PDU belongs.

### 6.3.5 R

Length: 1 bit

Reserved. In this version of the specification reserved bits shall be
set to 0. Reserved bits shall be ignored by the receiver.

### 6.3.6 RQI

Length: 1 bit,

The RQI bit indicates whether NAS should be informed of the updated of
SDF to QoS flow mapping rules (TS 23.501 \[4\]).

Table 6.3.6-1: RQI field

  ----- -----------------------------------------
  Bit   Description
  0     No action
  1     To inform NAS that RQI bit is set to 1.
  ----- -----------------------------------------

### 6.3.7 RDI

Length: 1 bit,

The RDI bit indicates whether QoS flow to DRB mapping rule should be
updated.

Table 6.3.7-1: RDI field

  ----- ----------------------------------------
  Bit   Description
  0     No action
  1     To store QoS flow to DRB mapping rule.
  ----- ----------------------------------------

### 6.3.8 PQFI

Length: 6 bits

The PQFI field indicates the ID of the PC5 QoS flow (as specified in TS
24.587\[6\]) to which the SDAP PDU belongs.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- -------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                  
  **Date**             **Meeting**    **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                    **New version**
  06/2017              RAN2 NR AH                 \-       \-        \-        First version                                                                          0.1.0
  08/2017              RAN2\#99                   \-       \-        \-        To capture agreements made in RAN2\#99                                                 0.2.0
  09/2017              RAN\#77                    \-       \-        \-        Presented to RAN\#77 for information                                                   1.0.0
  10/2017              RAN2\#99bis                                             To capture agreements made in RAN2\#99bis                                              1.1.0
  11/2017              RAN2\#100                                               To remove editor\'s notes.                                                             1.2.0
  01/2018              RAN2 NR AH                                              To capture agreements made in RAN2 NR AH                                               1.3.0
  04/2018              RAN2\#101bis                                            To capture agreements made in RAN2\#101                                                1.4.0
                       RAN2\#101bis                                            To capture agreements made in RAN2\#101bis                                             1.5.0
  05/2018              RAN2\#102                                               To capture agreements made in RAN2\#102                                                1.6.0
  06/2018              RP-80          RP-181256                                Provided to RAN \#80 for approval                                                      2.0.1
                       RP-80          RP-181266                                Provided to RAN \#80 for approval (update as RP-181256 was misused for another Tdoc)   2.0.2
                                                                               Upgraded to Rel-15 after the plenary approval                                          15.0.0
  09/2018              RP-81          RP-181940   0006     1         F         Miscellaneous corrections for SDAP                                                     15.1.0
                       RP-81          RP-181939   0007     \-        D         Miscellaneous corrections to SDAP                                                      15.1.0
                       RP-81          RP-181942   0008     1         F         Correction on flow remapping from default DRB                                          15.1.0
  03/2020              RP-87          RP-200346   0014     1         B         Introduction of 5G\_V2X\_NRSL to 37.324                                                16.0.0
  07/2020              RP-88          RP-201176   0016     1         F         Capture latest agreements on SDAP                                                      16.1.0
  09/2020              RP-89          RP-201927   0019     \-        F         37.324 corrections on Sidelink                                                         16.2.0
  06/2021              RP-92          RP-211470   0020     2         F         Correction of PQFI terminology in SDAP                                                 16.3.0
  -------------------- -------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
