3GPP TS 37.340 V16.13.0 (2023-09)

Technical Specification

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and NR;

Multi-connectivity;

Stage 2

(Release 16)

The present document has been developed within the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and Reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 6

1 Scope 7

2 References 7

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 8

3.1 Definitions 8

3.2 Abbreviations 9

4 Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity 10

4.1 General 10

4.1.1 Common MR-DC principles 10

4.1.2 MR-DC with the EPC 10

4.1.3 MR-DC with the 5GC 11

4.1.3.1 E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity 11

4.1.3.2 NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity 11

4.1.3.3 NR-NR Dual Connectivity 11

4.2 Radio Protocol Architecture 11

4.2.1 Control Plane 11

4.2.2 User Plane 12

4.3 Network interfaces 14

4.3.1 Control Plane 14

4.3.1.1 Common MR-DC principles 14

4.3.1.2 MR-DC with EPC 15

4.3.1.3 MR-DC with 5GC 15

4.3.2 User Plane 15

4.3.2.1 Common MR-DC principles 15

4.3.2.2 MR-DC with EPC 15

4.3.2.3 MR-DC with 5GC 15

5 Layer 1 related aspects 16

6 Layer 2 related aspects 16

6.1 MAC Sublayer 16

6.2 RLC Sublayer 17

6.3 PDCP Sublayer 17

6.4 SDAP Sublayer 17

6.5 BAP Sublayer 17

7 RRC related aspects 17

7.1 System information handling 17

7.2 Measurements 18

7.3 UE capability coordination 19

7.4 Handling of combined MN/SN RRC messages 20

7.5 SRB3 20

7.6 Split SRB 21

7.7 SCG/MCG failure handling 21

7.8 UE identities 22

7.9 Inter-node Resource Coordination 22

7.10 UE assistance information 23

7.11 F1-C transfer over E-UTRA 23

8 Bearer handling aspects 23

8.1 QoS aspects 23

8.2 Bearer type selection 24

8.3 Bearer type change 25

8.4 User data forwarding 26

9 Security related aspects 27

10 Multi-Connectivity operation related aspects 27

10.1 General 27

10.2 Secondary Node Addition 27

10.2.1 EN-DC 27

10.2.2 MR-DC with 5GC 29

10.3 Secondary Node Modification (MN/SN initiated) 31

10.3.1 EN-DC 31

10.3.2 MR-DC with 5GC 37

10.4 Secondary Node Release (MN/SN initiated) 43

10.4.1 EN-DC 43

10.4.2 MR-DC with 5GC 45

10.5 Secondary Node Change (MN/SN initiated) 47

10.5.1 EN-DC 47

10.5.2 MR-DC with 5GC 49

10.6 PSCell change 52

10.7 Inter-Master Node handover with/without Secondary Node change 53

10.7.1 EN-DC 53

10.7.2 MR-DC with 5GC 55

10.8 Master Node to eNB/gNB Change 57

10.8.1 EN-DC 57

10.8.2 MR-DC with 5GC 59

10.9 eNB/gNB to Master Node change 61

10.9.1 EN-DC 61

10.9.2 MR-DC with 5GC 62

10.10 RRC Transfer 63

10.10.1 EN-DC 63

10.10.2 MR-DC with 5GC 65

10.11 Secondary RAT data volume reporting 67

10.11.1 EN-DC 67

10.11.2 MR-DC with 5GC 68

10.12 Activity Notification 69

10.12.1 EN-DC 69

10.12.2 MR-DC with 5GC 72

10.13 Notification Control Indication 75

10.13.1 EN-DC 75

10.13.2 MR-DC with 5GC 75

10.14 PDU Session Split at UPF 75

10.14.1 PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource setup 75

10.14.2 PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource modify (5GC
initiated) 76

10.14.3 PDU Session Split at UPF (RAN initiated QoS flows offloading
from MN to SN) 76

10.15 F1-C Traffic Transfer 79

10.16 Support of inter-system handover involving EN-DC or MR-DC with 5GC
80

10.16.1 General 80

10.16.2 Inter-system handover from EPS to 5GS with the Secondary Node
used as target 80

10.16.3 Inter-system handover from 5GS to EPS with the Source Node used
as target Secondary Node 81

11 Service related aspects 81

11.1 Roaming and Access Restrictions 81

11.2 Support of Network Sharing 82

11.3 ARPI/SPID Handling from MN 82

12 X2/Xn Interface related aspects 82

13 Other aspects 82

13.1 Interference avoidance for in-device coexistence 82

13.2 Sidelink 82

Annex A (informative): Layer 2 handling for bearer type change 83

Annex B (informative): Supported MR-DC Handover Scenarios 85

Annex C (informative): Change history 86

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

Z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document provides an overview of the multi-connectivity
operation using E-UTRA and NR radio access technologies. Details of the
network and radio interface protocols are specified in companion
specifications of the 36 and 38 series.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall description; Stage
2\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 38.423: \"NG-RAN; Xn application protocol (XnAP)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 38.425: \"NG-RAN; NR user plane protocol\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NG-RAN; Requirements for support of radio
resource management\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN); X2 Application Protocol (X2AP)\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage
2\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 38.340: \"Backhaul Adaptation Protocol (BAP)
specification\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS)
to support Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services \".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\] and TS 36.300 \[2\].

**Child node**: IAB-DU\'s or IAB-donor-DU\'s next hop neighbour
IAB-node.

**Conditional PSCell Change:** a PSCell change procedure that is
executed only when PSCell execution condition(s) are met.

**En-gNB:** node providing NR user plane and control plane protocol
terminations towards the UE, and acting as Secondary Node in EN-DC.

**Fast MCG link recovery:** in MR-DC, an RRC procedure where the UE
sends an MCG Failure Information message to the MN via the SCG upon the
detection of a radio link failure on the MCG.

**IAB-donor:** gNB that provides network access to UEs via a network of
backhaul and access links.

**IAB-MT:** IAB-node function that terminates the Uu interface to the
parent node using the procedures and behaviours specified for UEs unless
stated otherwise.

**IAB-node:** RAN node that supports NR access links to UEs and NR
backhaul links to parent nodes and child nodes. The IAB-node does not
support backhauling via E-UTRA.

**Master Cell Group**: in MR-DC, a group of serving cells associated
with the Master Node, comprising of the SpCell (PCell) and optionally
one or more SCells.

**Master node**: in MR-DC, the radio access node that provides the
control plane connection to the core network. It may be a Master eNB (in
EN-DC), a Master ng-eNB (in NGEN-DC) or a Master gNB (in NR-DC and
NE-DC).

**MCG bearer**: in MR-DC, a radio bearer with an RLC bearer (or two RLC
bearers, in case of CA packet duplication in an E-UTRAN cell group, or
up to four RLC bearers in case of CA packet duplication in a NR cell
group) only in the MCG.

**MN terminated bearer:** in MR-DC, a radio bearer for which PDCP is
located in the MN.

**MCG SRB**: in MR-DC, a direct SRB between the MN and the UE.

**Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity:** Dual Connectivity between E-UTRA and
NR nodes, or between two NR nodes.

**Ng-eNB**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[3\].

**NR sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling at least V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.287 \[18\], between two or more nearby
UEs, using NR technology but not traversing any network node.

**Parent node:** IAB-MT\'s next hop neighbour node; the parent node can
be IAB-node or IAB-donor-DU.

**PCell**: SpCell of a master cell group.

**PSCell**: SpCell of a secondary cell group.

**RLC bearer:** RLC and MAC logical channel configuration of a radio
bearer in one cell group.

**Secondary Cell Group**: in MR-DC, a group of serving cells associated
with the Secondary Node, comprising of the SpCell (PSCell) and
optionally one or more SCells.

**Secondary node**: in MR-DC, the radio access node, with no control
plane connection to the core network, providing additional resources to
the UE. It may be an en-gNB (in EN-DC), a Secondary ng-eNB (in NE-DC) or
a Secondary gNB (in NR-DC and NGEN-DC).

**SCG bearer**: in MR-DC, a radio bearer with an RLC bearer (or two RLC
bearers, in case of CA packet duplication in an E-UTRAN cell group, or
up to four RLC bearers in case of CA packet duplication in a NR cell
group) only in the SCG.

**SN terminated bearer:** in MR-DC, a radio bearer for which PDCP is
located in the SN.

**SpCell**: primary cell of a master or secondary cell group.

**SRB3**: in EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, a direct SRB between the SN and
the UE.

**Split bearer:** in MR-DC, a radio bearer with RLC bearers both in MCG
and SCG.

**Split PDU Session (or PDU Session split):** a PDU Session whose QoS
Flows are served by more than one SDAP entities in the NG-RAN.

**Split SRB**: in MR-DC, a SRB between the MN and the UE with RLC
bearers both in MCG and SCG.

**User plane resource configuration:** in MR-DC with 5GC, encompasses
radio network resources and radio access resources related to either one
or more PDU sessions, one or more QoS flows, one or more DRBs, or any
combination thereof.

**V2X sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.285 \[19\], between nearby UEs, using
E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR
21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\] and TS 36.300 \[2\].

CHO Conditional Handover

CLI Cross Link Interference

CPC Conditional PSCell Change

DAPS Dual Active Protocol Stack

DC Intra-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity

DCP DCI with CRC scrambled by PS-RNTI

EN-DC E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity

IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul

MCG Master Cell Group

MN Master Node

MR-DC Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity

NE-DC NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity

NGEN-DC NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity

NR-DC NR-NR Dual Connectivity

SCG Secondary Cell Group

SMTC SS/PBCH block Measurement Timing Configuration

SN Secondary Node

V2X Vehicle-to-Everything

4 Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity
===============================

4.1 General
-----------

### 4.1.1 Common MR-DC principles

Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity (MR-DC) is a generalization of the
Intra-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity (DC) described in TS 36.300 \[2\], where
a multiple Rx/Tx capable UE may be configured to utilise resources
provided by two different nodes connected via non-ideal backhaul, one
providing NR access and the other one providing either E-UTRA or NR
access. One node acts as the MN and the other as the SN. The MN and SN
are connected via a network interface and at least the MN is connected
to the core network.

The MN and/or the SN can be operated with shared spectrum channel
access.

All functions specified for a UE may be used for an IAB-MT unless
otherwise stated. Similar as specified for UE, the IAB-MT can access the
network using either one network node or using two different nodes with
EN-DC and NR-DC architectures. In EN-DC, the backhauling traffic over
the E-UTRA radio interface is not supported.

NOTE 1: MR-DC is designed based on the assumption of non-ideal backhaul
between the different nodes but can also be used in case of ideal
backhaul.

NOTE 2: All MR-DC normative text and procedures in this version of the
specification show the aggregated node case. The details about
non-aggregated node for MR-DC operation are described in TS 38.401
\[7\].

### 4.1.2 MR-DC with the EPC

E-UTRAN supports MR-DC via E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity (EN-DC), in which
a UE is connected to one eNB that acts as a MN and one en-gNB that acts
as a SN. The eNB is connected to the EPC via the S1 interface and to the
en-gNB via the X2 interface. The en-gNB might also be connected to the
EPC via the S1-U interface and other en-gNBs via the X2-U interface.

The EN-DC architecture is illustrated in Figure 4.1.2-1 below.

Figure 4.1.2-1: EN-DC Overall Architecture

### 4.1.3 MR-DC with the 5GC

#### 4.1.3.1 E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity

NG-RAN supports NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity (NGEN-DC), in which a
UE is connected to one ng-eNB that acts as a MN and one gNB that acts as
a SN.

#### 4.1.3.2 NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity

NG-RAN supports NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity (NE-DC), in which a UE is
connected to one gNB that acts as a MN and one ng-eNB that acts as a SN.

#### 4.1.3.3 NR-NR Dual Connectivity

NG-RAN supports NR-NR Dual Connectivity (NR-DC), in which a UE is
connected to one gNB that acts as a MN and another gNB that acts as a
SN. In addition, NR-DC can also be used when a UE is connected to a
single gNB, acting both as a MN and as a SN, and configuring both MCG
and SCG.

4.2 Radio Protocol Architecture
-------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Control Plane

In MR-DC, the UE has a single RRC state, based on the MN RRC and a
single C-plane connection towards the Core Network. Figure 4.2.1-1
illustrates the Control plane architecture for MR-DC. Each radio node
has its own RRC entity (E-UTRA version if the node is an eNB or NR
version if the node is a gNB) which can generate RRC PDUs to be sent to
the UE.

RRC PDUs generated by the SN can be transported via the MN to the UE.
The MN always sends the initial SN RRC configuration via MCG SRB (SRB1),
but subsequent reconfigurations may be transported via MN or SN. When
transporting RRC PDU from the SN, the MN does not modify the UE
configuration provided by the SN.

In E-UTRA connected to EPC, at initial connection establishment SRB1
uses E-UTRA PDCP. If the UE supports EN-DC, regardless whether EN-DC is
configured or not, after initial connection establishment, MCG SRBs
(SRB1 and SRB2) can be configured by the network to use either E-UTRA
PDCP or NR PDCP (either SRB1 and SRB2 are both configured with E-UTRA
PDCP, or they are both configured with NR PDCP). Change from E-UTRA PDCP
to NR PDCP (or vice-versa) is supported via a handover procedure
(reconfiguration with mobility) or, for the initial change of SRB1 from
E-UTRA PDCP to NR PDCP, with a reconfiguration without mobility before
the initial security activation.

If the SN is a gNB (i.e. for EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC), the UE can be
configured to establish a SRB with the SN (SRB3) to enable RRC PDUs for
the SN to be sent directly between the UE and the SN. RRC PDUs for the
SN can only be transported directly to the UE for SN RRC reconfiguration
not requiring any coordination with the MN. Measurement reporting for
mobility within the SN can be done directly from the UE to the SN if
SRB3 is configured.

Split SRB is supported for all MR-DC options, allowing duplication of
RRC PDUs generated by the MN, via the direct path and via the SN. Split
SRB uses NR PDCP. This version of the specification does not support the
duplication of RRC PDUs generated by the SN via the MN and SN paths.

In EN-DC, the SCG configuration is kept in the UE during suspension.
During connection resumption, if the UE supports resuming with EN-DC,
the UE can be configured to release, restore, or reconfigure the SCG
configuration. Otherwise, the UE releases the SCG configuration (but not
the radio bearer configuration) during resumption initiation.

In MR-DC with 5GC, the UE stores the PDCP/SDAP configuration and the SCG
configuration when moving to RRC Inactive. During connection resumption,
if the UE supports resuming with MR-DC, the UE can be configured to
release, restore, or reconfigure the SCG configuration. Otherwise, it
releases the SCG configuration.

Figure 4.2.1-1: Control plane architecture for EN-DC (left) and MR-DC
with 5GC (right).

### 4.2.2 User Plane

In MR-DC, from a UE perspective, three bearer types exist: MCG bearer,
SCG bearer and split bearer. These three bearer types are depicted in
Figure 4.2.2-1 for MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC) and in Figure 4.2.2-2 for
MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC).

In E-UTRA connected to EPC, *if the UE supports EN-DC,* regardless
whether EN-DC is configured or not, *the network can configure either
E-UTRA PDCP or NR PDCP for MN terminated MCG bearers while NR PDCP is
always used for all other bearers*. Change from E-UTRA to NR PDCP or
vice-versa can be performed via a reconfiguration procedure (with or
without handover), either using release and add of the DRBs or using the
full configuration option.

*In MR-DC with 5GC, NR PDCP is always used for all bearer types. I*n
NGEN-DC, E-UTRA RLC/MAC is used in the MN while NR RLC/MAC is used in
the SN. *I*n NE-DC, NR RLC/MAC is used in the MN while E-UTRA RLC/MAC is
used in the SN. In NR-DC, NR RLC/MAC is used in both MN and SN.

Figure 4.2.2-1: Radio Protocol Architecture for MCG, SCG and split
bearers from a UE perspective in MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC)

Figure 4.2.2-2: Radio Protocol Architecture for MCG, SCG and split
bearers from a UE perspective in MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and
NR-DC).

From a network perspective, each bearer (MCG, SCG and split bearer) can
be terminated either in MN or in SN. Network side protocol termination
options are shown in Figure 4.2.2-3 for MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC) and in
Figure 4.2.2-4 for MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC).

NOTE 1: Even if only SCG bearers are configured for a UE, for SRB1 and
SRB2 the logical channels are always configured at least in the MCG,
i.e. this is still an MR-DC configuration and a PCell always exists.

NOTE 2: If only MCG bearers are configured for a UE, i.e. there is no
SCG, this is still considered an MR-DC configuration, as long as at
least one of the bearers is terminated in the SN.

Figure 4.2.2-3: Network side protocol termination options for MCG, SCG
and split bearers in MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC).

Figure 4.2.2-4: Network side protocol termination options for MCG, SCG
and split bearers in MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC).

4.3 Network interfaces
----------------------

### 4.3.1 Control Plane

#### 4.3.1.1 Common MR-DC principles

In MR-DC, there is an interface between the MN and the SN for control
plane signalling and coordination. For each MR-DC UE, there is also one
control plane connection between the MN and a corresponding CN entity.
The MN and the SN involved in MR-DC for a certain UE control their radio
resources and are primarily responsible for allocating radio resources
of their cells.

Figure 4.3.1.1-1 shows C-plane connectivity of MN and SN involved in
MR-DC for a certain UE.

Figure 4.3.1.1-1: C-Plane connectivity for EN-DC (left) and MR-DC with
5GC (right).

#### 4.3.1.2 MR-DC with EPC

In MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC), the involved core network entity is the MME.
S1-MME is terminated in MN and the MN and the SN are interconnected via
X2-C.

#### 4.3.1.3 MR-DC with 5GC

In MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC), the involved core network
entity is the AMF. NG-C is terminated in the MN and the MN and the SN
are interconnected via Xn-C.

### 4.3.2 User Plane

#### 4.3.2.1 Common MR-DC principles

There are different U-plane connectivity options of the MN and SN
involved in MR-DC for a certain UE, as shown in Figure 4.3.2.1-1. The
U-plane connectivity depends on the bearer option configured:

\- For *MN terminated bearers*, the user plane connection to the CN
entity is terminated in the MN;

\- For *SN terminated bearers*, the user plane connection to the CN
entity is terminated in the SN;

\- The transport of user plane data over the Uu either involves MCG or
SCG radio resources or both:

\- For *MCG bearers*, only MCG radio resources are involved;

\- For *SCG bearers*, only SCG radio resources are involved;

\- For *split bearers*, both MCG and SCG radio resources are involved.

\- For split bearers, *MN terminated SCG bearers* and *SN terminated MCG
bearers*, PDCP data is transferred between the MN and the SN via the
MN-SN user plane interface.

Figure 4.3.2.1-1: U-Plane connectivity for EN-DC (left) and MR-DC with
5GC (right).

#### 4.3.2.2 MR-DC with EPC

For MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC), X2-U interface is the user plane interface
between MN and SN, and S1-U is the user plane interface between the MN,
the SN or both and the S-GW.

#### 4.3.2.3 MR-DC with 5GC

For MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and inter-gNB NR-DC), Xn-U interface
is the user plane interface between MN and SN, and NG-U is the user
plane interface between the MN, the SN or both and the UPF.

5 Layer 1 related aspects
=========================

In MR-DC, two or more Component Carriers (CCs) may be aggregated over
two cell groups. A UE may simultaneously receive or transmit on multiple
CCs depending on its capabilities. The maximum number of configured CCs
for a UE is 32 for DL and UL. Depending on UE\'s capabilities, up to 31
CCs can be configured for an E-UTRA cell group when the NR cell group is
configured. For the NR cell group, the maximum number of configured CCs
for a UE is 16 for DL and 16 for UL.

A gNB may configure the same Physical Cell ID (PCI) to more than one NR
cell it serves. To avoid PCI confusion for MR-DC, NR PCIs should be
allocated in a way that an NR cell is uniquely identifiable by a PCell
identifier. This PCell is in the coverage area of an NR cell included in
the MR-DC operation. In addition, NR PCIs should only be re-used in NR
cells on the same SSB frequency sufficiently distant from each other.
X2-C/Xn-C signalling supports disambiguation of NR PCIs by including the
CGI of the PCell in respective X2AP/XnAP messages (e.g. SGNB ADDITION
REQUEST/S-NODE ADDITION REQUEST) and by providing neighbour cell
relationship via non-UE associated signaling (e.g. via the Xn Setup
procedure or the NG-RAN node Configuration Update procedure).

NR-DC supports the case of no synchronization between PCell and PSCell.
However, some UEs may support NR-DC only if slot-level synchronization
between PCell and PSCell is ensured.

In MR-DC, power sharing can be performed within a frequency range with
either semi-static or dynamic power sharing. With semi-static power
sharing, the maximum UE transmission power is semi-statically split
between MCG and SCG by RRC configuration. With dynamic power sharing:

\- when determining the UL transmission power of an SCG transmission in
(NG)EN-DC or in NR-DC, the UE takes into account transmission(s) on MCG
overlapping with any part of the SCG transmission;

\- when determining the UL transmission power of an MCG transmission in
NE-DC, the UE takes into account transmission(s) on SCG overlapping with
any part of the MCG transmission.

Details are specified in TS38.213\[21\].

In EN-DC, a UE configured with uplink Tx switching can have Tx
dynamically switched between E-UTRA uplink carrier and NR uplink carrier
for enabling 2Tx UL transmission on NR carrier.

6 Layer 2 related aspects
=========================

6.1 MAC Sublayer
----------------

In MR-DC, the UE is configured with two MAC entities: one MAC entity for
the MCG and one MAC entity for the SCG. The serving cells other than the
PCell can be activated/deactivated by RRC or MAC Control Element. For
activation/deactivation by MAC Control Element, the serving cells of the
MCG other than the PCell can only be activated/deactivated by the MAC
Control Element received on MCG, and the serving cells of the SCG other
than PSCell can only be activated/ deactivated by the MAC Control
Element received on SCG. The MAC entity applies the bitmap for the
associated cells of either MCG or SCG. PSCell in SCG is always activated
like the PCell (i.e. deactivation timer is not applied to PSCell). With
the exception of PUCCH SCell, one deactivation timer is configured per
SCell by RRC.

In MR-DC, semi-persistent scheduling (SPS) resources and configured
grant (CG) resources can be configured on serving cells in both MCG and
SCG.

In MR-DC, for 4-step RA type, contention based random access (CBRA)
procedure is supported on both PCell and PSCell while contention free
random access (CFRA) procedure is supported on all serving cells in both
MCG and SCG. For 2-step RA type, CBRA can be supported on the PCell, if
the MN is a gNB (i.e. for NE-DC and NR-DC) and on the PSCell, if the SN
is a gNB (i.e, for EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC) while CFRA is only
supported on the PCell, if the MN is a gNB (i.e. for NE-DC and NR-DC).

In MR-DC, the BSR configuration, triggering and reporting are
independently performed per cell group. For split bearers, the PDCP data
is considered in BSR in the cell group(s) configured by RRC.

In MR-DC, separate DRX configurations are provided for MCG and SCG. A
secondary DRX group can be configured in MR-DC for a cell group that
includes cells in different Frequency Ranges as specified in TS 38.331
\[4\].

In MR-DC, PHR is independently configured per cell group. Events in one
cell group can trigger power headroom reporting in both MCG and SCG.
Power headroom information for one cell group is also included in a PHR
transmitted in the other cell group.

In MR-DC, consistent LBT failure recovery procedure as described in
clause 5.6.1 in TS 38.300 \[3\] can be configured for both MAC entities
of MCG and/or SCG when operating with shared spectrum channel access.

In MR-DC, for power saving purpose, the UE can be configured with DCP to
be monitored on the PCell, if the MN is a gNB (i.e. for NE-DC and NR-DC)
and/or with DCP to be monitored on the PSCell, if the SN is a gNB (i.e.
for EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC).

In MR-DC, the UE may be configured with enhanced intra-UE overlapping
resources prioritization on MN, if the MN is a gNB (i.e. for NE-DC and
NR-DC) and on SN, if the SN is a gNB (i.e. for EN-DC, NGEN-DC and
NR-DC).

6.2 RLC Sublayer
----------------

Both RLC AM and UM can be configured for MR-DC, for all bearer types
(MCG, SCG and split bearers).

6.3 PDCP Sublayer
-----------------

In EN-DC, CA duplication (see \[3\]) can be applied in the MN and in the
SN, but MCG bearer CA duplication can be configured only in combination
with E-UTRAN PDCP and MCG bearer CA duplication can be configured only
if DC duplication is not configured for any split bearer.

In NGEN-DC, CA duplication can only be configured for SCG bearer. In
NE-DC, CA duplication can only be configured for MCG bearer. In NR-DC,
CA duplication can be configured for both MCG and SCG bearers, and can
be configured together with DC duplication.

In MR-DC, RoHC and EHC (as described in TS 36.323 \[15\] and TS 38.323
\[16\]) can be configured for all the bearer types.

6.4 SDAP Sublayer
-----------------

In MR-DC with 5GC, the network may host up to two SDAP protocol entities
for each individual PDU session, one for MN and another one for SN (see
clause 8.1). The UE is configured with one SDAP protocol entity per PDU
session.

6.5 BAP Sublayer
----------------

In EN-DC and NR-DC, IAB-node and IAB-donor-DU can be configured with BAP
sublayer for backhaul traffic (as described in TS 38.300 \[3\] and TS
38.340 \[17\]). In EN-DC, the BAP sublayer routes the backhaul traffic
via only the NR interface. In NR-DC, the BAP sublayer can route the
backhaul traffic via the two NR interfaces to the same IAB-donor.

7 RRC related aspects
=====================

7.1 System information handling
-------------------------------

In MR-DC, the SN is not required to broadcast system information other
than for radio frame timing and SFN. System information for initial
configuration is provided to the UE by dedicated RRC signalling via the
MN. The UE acquires, at least, radio frame timing and SFN of SCG from
the PSS/SSS and MIB (if the SN is an eNB) / NR-PSS/SSS and PBCH (if the
SN is a gNB) of the PSCell. In EN-DC, SN may broadcast system
information to allow only IAB-MT to access the SN.

NOTE: The option that the SN does not broadcast system information other
than radio frame timing and SFN relies on proper OAM configuration.

Additionally, upon change of the relevant system information of a
configured SCell, the network releases and subsequently adds the
concerned SCell (with updated system information), via one or more *RRC
reconfiguration* messages sent on SRB1 or SRB3, if configured.

7.2 Measurements
----------------

If the measurement is configured to the UE in preparation for the
Secondary Node Addition procedure described in clause 10.2, the Master
node should configure the measurement to the UE.

In case of the intra-secondary node mobility described in clause 10.3,
the SN should configure the measurement to the UE in coordination with
the MN, if required.

The Secondary Node Change procedure described in clause 10.5 can be
triggered by both the MN (only for inter-frequency secondary node
change) and the SN. For secondary node changes triggered by the SN, the
RRM measurement configuration is maintained by the SN which also
processes the measurement reporting, without providing the measurement
results to the MN.

Measurements can be configured independently by the MN and by the SN
(intra-RAT measurements on serving and non-serving frequencies). The MN
indicates the maximum number of frequency layers and measurement
identities of intra-frequency and inter-frequency measurement that can
be used in the SN to ensure that UE capabilities are not exceeded. In
MR-DC, to assist MN to identify the measurement type, the SN indicates
to the MN the list of SCG serving frequencies. In NR-DC, to assist SN to
identify the measurement type, the MN indicates also to SN the list of
MCG serving frequencies. The SN can also request the MN for new maximum
values of the number of measurement identities that it can configure,
and it is up to the MN whether to accommodate the SN request, based on
the capability coordination principles as described in 7.3. If the SN
receives from the MN a new value for the maximum number of measurement
identities, is SN responsibility to ensure that its configured
measurement identities to comply with the new limit.

If MN and SN both configure measurements on the same carrier frequency
then the configurations need to be consistent (if the network wants to
ensure these are considered as a single measurement layer). Each node
(MN and SN) can configure independently a threshold for the SpCell
quality. In (NG)EN-DC scenario, when the PCell quality is above the
threshold configured by the MN, the UE is still required to perform
inter-RAT measurements configured by the MN on the SN RAT (while it\'s
not required to perform intra-RAT measurements); when the PSCell quality
is above the threshold configured by the SN, the UE is not required to
perform measurements configured by the SN. In NR-DC or NE-DC scenario,
when the PCell quality is above the threshold configured by the MN, the
UE is not required to perform measurements configured by the MN; when
the PSCell quality is above the threshold configured by the SN, the UE
is not required to perform measurements configured by the SN.

NOTE: The SN cannot renegotiate the number of frequency layers allocated
by the MN in this version of the protocol.

In MR-DC, both the MN and the SN can configure CGI reporting. The MN can
configure CGI reporting for intra-RAT and inter-RAT cells but the SN can
only configure CGI reporting of intra-RAT cells. At any point in time,
the UE can be configured with at most one CGI reporting configuration.
For CGI reporting coordination, the SN sends the CGI measurement request
and the embedded CGI reporting configuration to the MN. Optionally, the
SN sends the unknown cell information to the MN. If there is no ongoing
CGI reporting measurement on UE side, the MN forwards the SN CGI
measurement configuration to UE. Otherwise the MN rejects the request by
sending X2/Xn reject message. In case the SN indicates the unknown cell
information, and the CGI information of the requested cell is already
available in the MN, the MN can also reject the request, and sends the
CGI information of the requested cell to the SN. The SN cannot configure
the CGI measurement using the SRB3.

When SRB3 is not configured, reports for measurements configured by the
SN are sent on SRB1. When SRB3 is configured and SCG transmission of
radio bearers is not suspended, reports for measurements configured by
the SN are sent on SRB3.

Measurement results related to the target SN can be provided by MN to
target SN at MN initiated SN change procedure. Measurement results of
target SN can be forwarded from source SN to target SN via MN at SN
initiated SN change procedure. Measurement results related to the target
SN can be provided by source MN to target MN at Inter-MN handover
with/without SN change procedure.

Measurement results according to measurement configuration from the MN
are encoded according to SN RRC when they are provided by MN to SN in
*SgNB Addition Request* message / *SN Addition Request* message. During
SN initiated SN change procedure, measurement results according to
measurement configuration from SN are encoded according to SN RRC when
they are provided by MN to SN in *SgNB Addition Request* message / *SN
Addition Request* message.

Per-UE or per-FR measurement gaps can be configured, depending on UE
capability to support independent FR measurement and network preference.
Per-UE gap applies to both FR1 (E-UTRA, UTRA-FDD and NR) and FR2 (NR)
frequencies. For per-FR gap, two independent gap patterns (i.e. FR1 gap
and FR2 gap) are configured for FR1 and FR2 respectively. The UE may
also be configured with a per-UE gap sharing configuration (applying to
per-UE gap) or with two separate gap sharing configurations (applying to
FR1 and FR2 measurement gaps respectively) \[8\].

A measurement gap configuration is always provided:

\- In EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NE-DC, for UEs configured with E-UTRA
inter-frequency measurements as described in table 9.1.2-2 in TS 38.133
\[8\];

\- In EN-DC and NGEN-DC, for UEs configured with UTRAN and GERAN
measurements as described in table 9.1.2-2 in TS 38.133 \[8\];

\- In NR-DC, for UEs configured with E-UTRAN measurements as described
in table 9.1.2-3 in TS 38.133 \[8\];

\- In NR-DC, NE-DC, for UEs configured with UTRAN measurements as
described in table 9.4.6.3-1 and 9.4.6.3-2 in TS 38.133 \[8\];

\- In MR-DC, for UEs that support either per-UE or per-FR gaps, when the
conditions to measure SSB based inter-frequency measurement or SSB based
intra-frequency measurement as described in clause 9.2.4 in TS 38.300
\[3\] are met;

If per-UE gap is used, the MN decides the gap pattern and the related
gap sharing configuration. If per-FR gap is used, in EN-DC and NGEN-DC,
the MN decides the FR1 gap pattern and the related gap sharing
configuration for FR1, while the SN decides the FR2 gap pattern and the
related gap sharing configuration for FR2; in NE-DC and NR-DC, the MN
decides both the FR1 and FR2 gap patterns and the related gap sharing
configurations.

In EN-DC and NGEN-DC, the measurement gap configuration from the MN to
the UE indicates if the configuration from the MN is a per-UE gap or an
FR1 gap configuration. The MN also indicates the configured per-UE or
FR1 measurement gap pattern and the gap purpose (per-UE or per-FR1) to
the SN. Measurement gap configuration assistance information can be
exchanged between the MN and the SN. For the case of per-UE gap, the SN
indicates to the MN the list of SN configured frequencies in FR1 and FR2
measured by the UE. For the per-FR gap case, the SN indicates to the MN
the list of SN configured frequencies in FR1 measured by the UE and the
MN indicates to the SN the list of MN configured frequencies in FR2
measured by the UE.

In NE-DC, the MN indicates the configured per-UE or FR1 measurement gap
pattern to the SN. The SN can provide a gap request to the MN, without
indicating any list of frequencies.

In NR-DC, the MN indicates the configured per-UE, FR1 or FR2 measurement
gap pattern and the gap purpose to the SN. The SN can indicate to the MN
the list of SN configured frequencies in FR1 and FR2 measured by the UE.

In (NG)EN-DC and NR-DC, SMTC can be used for PSCell addition/PSCell
change to assist the UE in finding the SSB in the target PSCell. In case
the SMTC of the target PSCell is provided by both MN and SN it is up to
UE implementation which one to use.

CLI measurements can be configured for NR cells in all MR-DC options. In
EN-DC and NGEN-DC, only the SN can configure CLI measurements. In NE-DC,
only the MN can configure CLI measurements. In NR-DC, both the MN and
the SN can configure CLI measurements, and the MN informs the SN about
the maximum number of CLI measurement resources that can be configured
by the SN to ensure that the total number of CLI measurement resources
does not exceed the UE capabilities.

7.3 UE capability coordination
------------------------------

In (NG)EN-DC and NE-DC, the capabilities of a UE supporting MR-DC are
carried by different capability containers. Some MR-DC related
capabilities are in the MR-DC container e.g. MR-DC band combinations,
while other MR-DC related capabilities are contained in the E-UTRA and
NR capability containers e.g. feature sets as described in TS 38.300
\[3\]. The MR-DC capabilities in the MR-DC container need to be visible
to both MN and SN, while the capabilities in the E-UTRA and NR
containers only need to be visible to the node of the concerned RAT.

In NR-DC, all NR-DC related capabilities are in the NR capability
container and are visible to both MN and SN.

When retrieving MR-DC related capabilities, the MN shall provide an
MR-DC filter that affects the MR-DC related capabilities in MR-DC,
E-UTRA and NR capability containers. When using different *UE capability
enquiry* messages to retrieve the different containers, the MN shall
employ the same MR-DC filter in all enquiry messages. In the E-UTRA RRC
UE capability enquiry, the MR-DC filter is also used for retrieval of NR
capabilities i.e. there is in fact one MR-DC/NR filter (while there is a
separate filter for E-UTRA capabilities). Furthermore, the MN stores the
retrieved capabilities and the corresponding filter, used to retrieve
those capabilities, in the core network for later use.

For the UE capabilities requiring coordination between E-UTRA and NR
(i.e. band combinations, feature sets and the maximum power for FR1 the
UE can use in SCG) or between NR MN and NR SN (i.e. band combinations,
feature sets and the maximum power for FR1 and FR2), it is up to the MN
to decide on how to resolve the dependency between MN and SN
configurations. The MN then provides the resulting UE capabilities
usable for SCG configuration to the SN, including the list of allowed
MR-DC band combinations and feature sets, and the SN indicates the
selected band combination and feature set to the MN. When subsequently
reconfiguring the SCG, the SN should inform the MN whenever the band
combination and/or feature set it selected for the SCG changes (i.e.
even if the selection concerns a band combination and feature set that
is allowed). As part of an SN initiated SN modification, the SN may also
indicate the desired UE capabilities usable for SCG configuration (e.g.
a band combination and a feature set) outside those allowed by the MN
(i.e. it may re-negotiate the UE capabilities for SCG configuration),
and it is up to the MN to make the final decision whether to accept or
reject the request. If the MN accepts the request, the MN may provide
the resulting UE capabilities e.g. by indicating the allowed band
combinations and feature sets. If MN accepts but does not provide
resulting UE capabilities, SN assumes the UE capabilities usable for SCG
configuration are updated in accordance with the modification it
requested. Otherwise, the MN rejects the request by sending X2/Xn refuse
message.

In EN-DC and MR-DC with 5GC, the MN may provide the UE radio capability
ID to the SN. For EN-DC, the SN may retrieve the UE Radio Capability
information associated to a UE radio capability ID from the MN. For
MR-DC with 5GC, the SN may retrieve the UE radio capability information
associated to a UE radio capability ID from the 5GC.

7.4 Handling of combined MN/SN RRC messages
-------------------------------------------

When both MCG and SCG reconfiguration is required due to the need for
coordination with the MN, the *SN RRC reconfiguration* message is
encapsulated in an MN RRC message that also carries the corresponding
MCG reconfiguration that ensures that the combined configuration can be
jointly processed by the UE. If the MN terminates a bearer using NR
PDCP, the NR PDCP configuration is generated by the MN itself. If the SN
terminates the bearer, the SN generates the NR PDCP configuration and
sends it to the MN as a separate container.

The UE uses a joint success/failure procedure for messages in an
encapsulating MN RRC message. A failure of the MN RRC messages,
including one encapsulated SN RRC message with or without any MCG
reconfiguration fields, triggers a re-establishment procedure. Each *SN
RRC reconfiguration* message should have its own RRC response message
even when the SN RRC message is encapsulated in an MN RRC message. The
SN RRC response message is forwarded over X2/Xn to the SN. If a *SN RRC
reconfiguration* message is contained in a MN RRC message, the UE sends
a MN RRC response message that encapsulates the SN RRC response message.

NOTE: If the MN RRC message does not encapsulate an *SN RRC
reconfiguration* message (i.e. an SCG configuration) but only
information elements generated by the SN (e.g. the PDCP configuration
for an SN terminated bearer), the UE will not send an SN RRC response
message.

7.5 SRB3
--------

SRB3 is supported in EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, but not in NE-DC.

The decision to establish SRB3 is taken by the SN, which provides the
SRB3 configuration using an SN RRC message. SRB3 establishment and
release can be done at Secondary Node Addition and Secondary Node
Change. SRB3 reconfiguration can be done at Secondary Node Modification
procedure.

SRB3 may be used to send *SN RRC Reconfiguration*, *SN RRC
Reconfiguration Complete*, *SN Measurement Report, SN Failure
Information* *(i.e., in case of failure for an SCG RLC bearer), SN UE
Assistance Information* message and *SN* *IABOtherInformation*, only in
procedures where the MN is not involved. *SN RRC Reconfiguration
Complete* messages are mapped to the same SRB as the message initiating
the procedure. *SN Measurement Report* messages are mapped to SRB3, if
configured, regardless of whether the configuration is received directly
from the SN or via the MN. No MN RRC messages are mapped to SRB3.

If split SRB1 is not configured, SRB3 may be used by the UE to transmit
to the MN an encapsulated *MCG Failure Information* message in the
*ULInformationTransferMRDC* message and receive in response an
encapsulated *RRC reconfiguration* message, *MobilityFromNRCommand*
message, *MobilityFromEUTRACommand* message or *RRC release* message in
the *DLInformationTransferMRDC* message.

SRB3 is modelled as one of the SRBs defined in TS 38.331 \[4\] and uses
the NR-DCCH logical channel type. RRC PDUs on SRB3 are ciphered and
integrity protected using NR PDCP, with security keys derived from
S-K~gNB~. The SN selects ciphering and integrity protection algorithms
for the SRB3 and provides them to the MN within the SCG Configuration
for transmission to the UE.

NOTE: A NR SCG RRC message sent via E-UTRA MCG SRB is protected by
E-UTRA MCG SRB security (NR security is not used in this case).

SRB3 is of higher scheduling priority than all DRBs. The default
scheduling priorities of split SRB1 and SRB3 are the same.

There is no requirement on the UE to perform any reordering of RRC
messages between SRB1 and SRB3.

When SCG is released, SRB3 is released.

7.6 Split SRB
-------------

Split SRB is supported for both SRB1 and SRB2 (split SRB is not
supported for SRB0 and SRB3) in all MR-DC cases. RRC PDUs on split SRB
are ciphered and integrity protected using NR PDCP.

Split SRB can be configured by the MN in Secondary Node Addition and/or
Modification procedure, with SN configuration part provided by the SN. A
UE can be configured with both split SRB and SRB3 simultaneously. SRB3
and the SCG leg of split SRB can be independently configured.

For the split SRB, the selection of transmission path in downlink
depends on network implementation. For uplink, the UE is configured via
MN RRC signalling whether to use MCG path or duplicate the transmission
on both MCG and SCG.

7.7 SCG/MCG failure handling
----------------------------

RLF is declared separately for the MCG and for the SCG.

If radio link failure is detected for MCG, and fast MCG link recovery is
configured, the UE triggers fast MCG link recovery. Otherwise, the UE
initiates the RRC connection re-establishment procedure. During the
execution of PSCell addition or PSCell change, if radio link failure is
detected for MCG, the UE initiates the RRC connection re-establishment
procedure.

During fast MCG link recovery, the UE suspends MCG transmissions for all
radio bearers, except SRB0, and reports the failure with
*MCGFailureInformation* message to the MN via the SCG, using the SCG leg
of split SRB1 or SRB3.

The UE includes in the *MCGFailureInformation* message the measurement
results available according to current measurement configuration of both
the MN and the SN. Once the fast MCG link recovery is triggered, the UE
maintains the current measurement configurations from both the MN and
the SN, and continues measurements based on configuration from the MN
and the SN, if possible. The UE initiates the RRC connection
re-establishment procedure if it does not receive an
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, *RRCReconfiguration* message,
*MobilityFromNRCommand* message, *MobilityFromEUTRACommand* message,
*RRCConnectionRelease* message or *RRCRelease* message within a certain
time after fast MCG link recovery was initiated.

Upon reception of the *MCGFailureInformation* message, the MN can send
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, *RRCReconfiguration* message,
*MobilityFromNRCommand* message, *MobilityFromEUTRACommand* message,
*RRCConnectionRelease* message or *RRCRelease* message to the UE, using
the SCG leg of split SRB1 or SRB3. Upon receiving an
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, *RRCReconfiguration* message,
*MobilityFromNRCommand* message or *MobilityFromEUTRACommand* message,
the UE resumes MCG transmissions for all radio bearers. Upon receiving
an *RRCConnectionRelease* message or *RRCRelease* message, the UE
releases all the radio bearers and configurations.

NOTE 1: It is up to network implementation to guarantee that the
RRC-related messages are delivered to the UE by the SN before the
release of its control plane resources.

The following SCG failure cases are supported:

\- SCG RLF;

\- SN addition/change failure;

\- For EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, SCG configuration failure or CPC
configuration failure (only for messages on SRB3);

\- For EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, SCG RRC integrity check failure (on
SRB3);

\- For EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, consistent UL LBT failure on PSCell;

\- For IAB-MT, reception of a BH RLF indication from SCG;

\- CPC execution failure.

Upon SCG failure, if MCG transmissions of radio bearers are not
suspended, the UE suspends SCG transmissions for all radio bearers and
reports the *SCGFailureInformation* to the MN, instead of triggering
re-establishment. If SCG failure is detected while MCG transmissions for
all radio bearers are suspended, the UE initiates the RRC connection
re-establishment procedure.

SCG/MCG failure handling by UE also applies to IAB MT.

In all SCG failure cases, the UE maintains the current measurement
configurations from both the MN and the SN and the UE continues
measurements based on configuration from the MN and the SN if possible.
The SN measurements configured to be routed via the MN will continue to
be reported after the SCG failure.

NOTE 2: UE may not continue measurements based on configuration from the
SN after SCG failure in certain cases (e.g. UE cannot maintain the
timing of PSCell).

The UE includes in the *SCGFailureInformation* message the measurement
results available according to current measurement configuration of both
the MN and the SN. The MN handles the *SCGFailureInformation* message
and may decide to keep, change, or release the SN/SCG. In all the cases,
the measurement results according to the SN configuration and the SCG
failure type may be forwarded to the old SN and/or to the new SN.

In case of CPC, upon transmission of the *SCGFailureInformation* message
to the MN, the UE stops evaluating the CPC execution condition. The UE
is not required to continue measurements for candidate PSCell(s) for
execution condition upon transmission of the *SCGFailureInformation*
message to the MN.

7.8 UE identities
-----------------

In MR-DC, two C-RNTIs are independently allocated to the UE: one for
MCG, and one for SCG.

7.9 Inter-node Resource Coordination
------------------------------------

For MR-DC operations, MN and SN may coordinate their UL and DL radio
resources in semi-static manner via UE associated signalling. The MN may
coordinate its sidelink radio resources with the SN using the same UE
associated signalling.

In EN-DC, CSI-RS based SgNB change between neighbour en-gNBs is
supported by enabling that neighbour en-gNBs can exchange their
own CSI-RS configurations and on/off status via the MeNB.

In NGEN-DC and NR-DC, CSI-RS based SN change between neighbour gNBs is
supported by enabling that neighbour gNBs can exchange their own CSI-RS
configurations and on/off status via the MN.

7.10 UE assistance information
------------------------------

In MR-DC, the UE can be configured to report MCG specific UE assistance
information if the MN is a gNB and/or SCG specific UE assistance
information if the SN is a gNB, if it prefers an adjustment on the
connected mode DRX parameters, the maximum aggregated bandwidth, the
maximum number of secondary component carriers, the maximum number of
MIMO layers, and/or the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot
scheduling cycle length for power saving. In these cases, it is up to
the network whether to accommodate the preference. SCG specific UE
assistance information for power saving can be configured by the network
via SRB1 or SRB3. SCG specific UE assistance information for power
saving is directly transmitted to the SN via SRB3, if SRB3 is
configured, otherwise UE transmits SCG specific UE assistance
information for power saving in a transparent container to the MN. UE
can implicitly indicate a preference for NR SCG release by indicating
zero number of carriers and zero aggregated maximum bandwidth in both
FR1 and FR2.

7.11 F1-C transfer over E-UTRA
------------------------------

In EN-DC, the F1-AP message encapsulated in SCTP/IP or F1-C related
(SCTP/)IP packet can be transferred between IAB-donor and IAB-node via
E-UTRA, if configured by IAB-donor, as specified in TS 38.331 \[4\].
When both E-UTRA and NR are configured to transfer the F1-AP message
encapsulated in SCTP/IP or F1-C related (SCTP/)IP packet, it is up to
the IAB implementation when to select the E-UTRA. SRB2 is used for
transporting the F1-AP message encapsulated in SCTP/IP or F1-C related
(SCTP/)IP packet between IAB-MT and MN \[10\], and the F1-AP message
encapsulated in SCTP/IP or F1-C related (SCTP/)IP packet is transferred
as a container via X2-AP between MN and SN, see TS 36.423 \[9\].

8 Bearer handling aspects
=========================

8.1 QoS aspects
---------------

In EN-DC, the E-UTRAN QoS framework defined in TS 36.300 \[2\] applies:

\- An S1-U bearer is established between the EPC and the SN for SN
terminated bearers;

\- An X2-U bearer is established between the MN and the SN for split
bearers, MN terminated SCG bearers and SN terminated MCG bearers;

\- MN terminated and SN terminated bearers may have either MCG or SCG
radio resources or both, MCG and SCG radio resources, established;

In MR-DC with 5GC:

\- The NG-RAN QoS framework defined in TS 38.300 \[3\] applies;

\- QoS flows belonging to the same PDU session may be mapped to
different bearer types (see clause 4.2.2) and as a result there may be
two different SDAP entities for the same PDU session: one at the MN and
another one at the SN, in which case the MN decides which QoS flows are
assigned to the SDAP entity in the SN. If the SN decides that its SDAP
entity cannot host a given QoS flow any longer, the SN informs the MN
and the MN cannot reject the request. If the MN decides that its SDAP
entity can host a given QoS flow which has already been relocated to SN,
the MN informs the SN;

\- The MN or SN node that hosts the SDAP entity for a given QoS flow
decides how to map the QoS flow to DRBs;

\- If the SDAP entity for a given QoS flow is hosted by the MN and the
MN decides that SCG resources are to be configured it provides to the SN

\- DRB QoS flow level QoS parameters, which the SN may reject, and

\- QoS flow to DRB mapping information and the respective per QoS flow
information;

\- If the SDAP entity for a given QoS flow is hosted by the SN and the
SN configures MCG resources, based on offered MCG resource information
from the MN, the SN provides to the MN

\- DRB QoS flow level QoS parameters, which the MN may reject, and

\- QoS flow to DRB mapping information and the respective per QoS flow
information.

\- If the SDAP entity for a given QoS flow is hosted by the SN, the MN
provides sufficient QoS related information to enable the SN to
configure appropriate SCG resources and to request the configuration of
appropriate MCG resources. The MN may offer MCG resources to the SN and
may indicate for GBR QoS flows the amount offered to the SN on a per QoS
flow level. Otherwise, the SN can only use SCG resources for the
concerned QoS flow. The SN may request the MN to release QoS flows from
the SDAP entity hosted by the SN that the MN cannot reject. The MN may
also offer MCG resources per PDU Session for all DRBs to which non-GBR
QoS flows contained in the PDU Session are mapped.

\- MN decides the DL PDU session AMBR and UL PDU session AMBR limits to
be assigned to the SN, and indicates these to the SN:

\- The PDCP entity at the SN applies the received DL PDU session AMBR
limi t to the set of all bearers for which the SN hosts PDCP for the UE;

\- The MAC entity at the SN applies the received UL PDU session AMBR
limit to the scheduled uplink radio traffic at the SN for the UE.

> \- The MN can decide to reallocate one or more QoS flows from the MN
> to the SN. In such case, the SN decides which DRBs the offloaded QoS
> flows are mapped to. It is possible to avoid/ minimise loss and ensure
> in-order delivery when reallocating all QoS flows mapped to a given
> DRB in the MN by keeping the QoS flows mapped to the same DRB in the
> SN. To achieve this, the SN should behave similar to what is specified
> for the target NG-RAN node upon handover, see TS 38.300 clause
> 9.2.3.2.2 \[3\]. The corresponding behaviour applies when QoS flows
> are re-allocated from the SN to the MN.

In all MR-DC cases:

\- The MN decides the DL UE AMBR and UL UE AMBR limits to be assigned to
the SN, and indicates these to the SN:

\- The PDCP entity at the SN applies the received DL UE AMBR limit to
the set of all bearers for which the SN hosts PDCP for the UE;

\- The MAC entity at the SN applies the received UL UE AMBR limit to the
scheduled uplink radio traffic at the SN for the UE.

To support PDU sessions mapped to different bearer types, MR-DC with 5GC
provides the possibility for the MN to request the 5GC:

\- For some PDU sessions of a UE: Direct the User Plane traffic of the
whole PDU session either to the MN or to the SN. In that case, there is
a single NG-U tunnel termination at the NG-RAN for such PDU session.

\- The MN may request to change this assignment during the life time of
the PDU session.

\- For some other PDU sessions of a UE: Direct the User Plane traffic of
a subset of the QoS flows of the PDU session to the SN (respectively MN)
while the rest of the QoS flows of the PDU session is directed to the MN
(respectively SN). In that case, there are two NG-U tunnel terminations
at the NG-RAN for such PDU session.

\- The MN may request to change this assignment during the life time of
the PDU session.

To support notification control indication for GBR QoS flows along the
QoS framework specified in 38.300 \[3\] for MR-DC with 5GC, SN and MN
may mutually indicate whenever QoS requirements for GBR QoS flows cannot
be fulfilled anymore or can be fulfilled again. When indicating that GBR
QoS flows cannot be fulfilled anymore, SN or MN may additionally
indicate the reference to the QoS Parameter Set which it can currently
fulfil.

8.2 Bearer type selection
-------------------------

In EN-DC, for each radio bearer the MN decides the location of the PDCP
entity and in which cell group(s) radio resources are to be configured.
Once an SN terminated split bearer is established, e.g. by means of the
Secondary Node Addition procedure or MN initiated Secondary Node
Modification procedure, the SN may remove SCG resources for the
respective E-RAB, as long as the QoS for the respective E-RAB is
guaranteed. In case an SN terminated bearer is released or reconfigured
to an MN terminated bearer, only the MN generates the corresponding
configuration and the SN does not generate the release configuration.

In MR-DC with 5GC, the following principles apply:

\- The MN decides per PDU session the location of the SDAP entity, i.e.
whether it shall be hosted by the MN or the SN or by both (split PDU
session);

\- If the MN decides to host an SDAP entity it may decide some of the
related QoS flows to be realized as MCG bearer, some as SCG bearer, and
others to be realized as split bearer;

\- If the MN decides that an SDAP entity shall be hosted in the SN, some
of the related QoS flows may be realized as SCG bearer, some as MCG
bearer, while others may be realized as split bearer. In this case, the
SN decides how to realise the QoS flow, but if the MN does not offer MCG
resources, the SN can only realize the QoS flow as SCG bearer. The SN
may remove or add SCG resources for the respective QoS flows, as long as
the QoS for the respective QoS flow is guaranteed

\- If the MN decides that an SDAP entity shall be hosted in the SN,
coordination of DRB IDs between the MN and the SN is needed to ensure
unique allocation of DRBs for a UE. The SN is responsible to assign the
DRB IDs for the DRBs it terminates, based on the DRB IDs indicated by
the MN.

\- For each PDU session, including split PDU sessions, at most one
default DRB may be configured (see \[3\]). The MN decides whether the SN
is allowed to setup the default DRB or not;

\- In case an SN terminated bearer is released or reconfigured to an MN
terminated bearer, the MN generates the corresponding configuration and
the SN does not generate the release configuration. The only exceptional
case where SN generates the release configuration is for the DRB release
due to QoS flow to DRB remapping within SN.

8.3 Bearer type change
----------------------

In MR-DC, all the possible bearer type change options are supported:

\- MCG bearer to/from split bearer;

\- MCG bearer to/from SCG bearer;

\- SCG bearer to/from split bearer.

Bearer termination point change is supported for all bearer types, and
can be performed with or without bearer type change:

\- MN terminated bearer to/from SN terminated bearer.

For MR-DC:

\- when the security key is changed for a bearer due to a termination
point change, the associated PDCP and RLC entities are re-established,
while MAC behavior might depend on the solution selected by the network,
e.g. MAC reset, change of LCID, etc. (see Annex A);

\- for MCG bearer, split bearer and SCG bearer, during MN security key
change the MCG/SCG PDCP and RLC are re-established and MCG/SCG MAC is
reset;

\- if a bearer type change happens together with MN security key change
then for MCG bearer, split bearer and SCG bearer, the MCG/SCG PDCP and
RLC are re-established and MCG/SCG MAC is reset;

\- if a bearer type change happens through SN change procedure, then SN
terminated PDCP and SCG RLC are re-established and SCG MAC is reset. MCG
RLC/MAC behavior depends on the solution selected by the network, see
Annex A;

\- one step (direct) bearer type change between MN terminated bearer
types without using the handover procedure is supported;

\- one step (direct) bearer type change between SN terminated bearer
types without using the handover or SN change procedure is supported;

\- one step (direct) bearer type change from/to MN terminated bearer
to/from SN terminated bearer without using the handover procedure is
supported;

\- PDCP SN length change for an AM DRB or RLC mode change for DRB is
performed using a release and add of the DRBs (in a single message) or
full configuration;

\- One step (direct) bearer type change with PDCP version change (only
applicable for EN-DC) is supported.

For MR-DC with 5GC:

\- in a bearer termination point change of a DRB from a source NG-RAN
node to a target NG-RAN node, for each DRB for which the source NG-RAN
node provides QoS flow to DRB mapping information to the target NG-RAN
node, the source NG-RAN node also offers the indicated DRB ID for usage
at the target NG-RAN node. The target NG-RAN node informs the source
NG-RAN node if it accepts the DRB offloading and takes the DRB ID into
use.

NOTE 1: In this clause the term \"handover\" refers to an E-UTRA
handover or to an NR synchronous reconfiguration not necessarily
implying a P(S)Cell change with or without security key change.

NOTE 2: L2 handling for bearer type change in MR-DC is also summarized
in Annex A (the table does not consider the cases that PDCP SN length is
changed and avoiding reuse of COUNT).

8.4 User data forwarding
------------------------

Upon EN-DC specific activities, user data forwarding may be performed
for E-RABs for which the bearer type change from/to MN terminated bearer
to/from SN terminated bearer is performed. The behaviour of the node
from which data is forwarded is the same as specified for the \"source
eNB\" for handover, the behaviour of the node to which data is forwarded
is the same as specified for the \"target eNB\" for handover.

For MR-DC with 5GC, user data forwarding may be performed between NG-RAN
nodes whenever the logical node hosting the PDCP entity changes. The
behaviour of the node from which data is forwarded is the same as
specified for the \"source NG-RAN node\" for handover, the behaviour of
the node to which data is forwarded is the same as specified for the
\"target NG-RAN node\" for handover.

For SN change involving full configuration, the source SN behaviour is
the same as the description as specified in intra-system data forwarding
in TS 36.300 \[2\] for the source eNB or TS 38.300 \[3\] for the source
NG-RAN node, respectively. In case that a DRB DL forwarding tunnel was
established, the target SN may identify the PDCP SDUs for which delivery
was attempted by the source SN, by the presence of the PDCP SN in the
forwarded GTP-U packet and may discard them.

For mobility scenarios which involve more than two RAN nodes, either
direct or indirect data forwarding may be applied. Two transport layer
addresses of different versions may be provided to enable that the
source RAN node can select either IPv4 or IPv6.

Direct data forwarding from source SN to target NG-RAN node and from
source NG-RAN node to target SN for mobility scenario is supported.
Direct data forwarding from source SN to target SN for SN change
scenario is also supported.

Direct data forwarding for inter-system handover is specified in TS
38.300 \[3\]. If a gNB and an en-gNB are involved in direct data
forwarding and realised within the same network entity, inter-system
handover to and from EN-DC allows direct data forwarding being performed
in a node-internal way, in which case the source RAN node provides a UE
context reference to the target side as described in clause 10.16. If
the gNB and en-gNB are not realised within the same network entity,
direct data forwarding for inter-system handover to and from en-gNB/gNB
could be supported if there is direct connectivity between the two
nodes.

For MR-DC with 5GC, offloading of QoS flows within one PDU session may
be performed between NG-RAN nodes. The handling of End Marker packets in
case of NG-RAN initiated PDU session split is described in clause
10.14.3 and 10.14.4.

9 Security related aspects
==========================

MR-DC can only be configured after security activation in the MN.

In EN-DC and NGEN-DC, for bearers terminated in the MN the network
configures the UE with K~eNB~; for bearers terminated in the SN the
network configures the UE with S-K~gNB~. In NE-DC, for bearers
terminated in the MN the network configures the UE with K~gNB~; for
bearers terminated in the SN the network configures the UE with
S-K~eNB~. In NR-DC, for bearers terminated in the MN the network
configures the UE with K~gNB~; for bearers terminated in the SN the
network configures the UE with S-K~gNB~.

In NE-DC and NR-DC, a PCell change without K~gNB~ change does not
require a S-K~eNB~ change (NE-DC case) or a S-K~gNB~ change (NR-DC
case).

In EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, for a PSCell change that does not require a
K~eNB~ change (i.e. no simultaneous PCell handover in EN-DC and NGEN-DC)
or a K~gNB~ change (in NR-DC), S-K~gNB~ key refresh is not required if
the PDCP termination point of the SN is not changed. In NE-DC, a PSCell
change always requires a S-K~eNB~ change.

In EN-DC, the UE supports the NR security algorithms corresponding to
the E-UTRA security algorithms signalled at NAS level and the UE NR AS
Security capability is not signalled to the MN over RRC. Mapping from
E-UTRA security algorithms to the corresponding NR security algorithms,
where necessary, is performed at the MN.

For MR-DC with 5GC, UP integrity protection can be configured on a per
radio bearer basis. All DRBs which belong to the same PDU session always
have the same UP integrity protection activation, i.e., either on or
off:

\- For NR-DC: MN and/or SN terminated DRBs of a PDU session can have UP
integrity protection activation either on or off. A UE configured to
operate in NR-DC shall support integrity protection for all DRBs (MN and
SN terminated) at any data rate, up to and including the highest data
rate supported by the UE for both UL and DL (see TS 38.300 \[3\]).

\- For NE-DC: MN terminated DRBs of a PDU session can have UP integrity
protection activation on; however, in this case, the MN will not at any
point offload any DRB of such PDU session to the SN. A UE configured to
operate in NE-DC shall support integrity protection for all MN
terminated DRBs at any data rate, up to and including the highest data
rate supported by the UE\'s radio access capabilities for both UL and DL
(see TS 38.300 \[3\]). SN terminated DRBs of a PDU session always have
UP integrity protection activation off.

\- For NGEN-DC: Both MN terminated and SN terminated DRBs of a PDU
session always have UP integrity protection activation off.

10 Multi-Connectivity operation related aspects
===============================================

10.1 General
------------

Similar procedures as defined under clause 10.1.2.8 (Dual Connectivity
operation) in TS 36.300 \[2\] apply for MR-DC.

Similar CHO principles as defined in TS 36.300 \[2\] and TS 38.300 \[3\]
apply for the Conditional PSCell Change in MR-DC.

Conditional PSCell Change is not supported for the MR-DC options NE-DC
and NGEN-DC.

Configuration of CHO and CPC for simultaneous operation is not supported
in this release.

In case MR-DC is configured, CHO is only supported in Master Node to
eNB/gNB Change procedure in this release.

10.2 Secondary Node Addition
----------------------------

### 10.2.1 EN-DC

The Secondary Node Addition procedure is initiated by the MN and is used
to establish a UE context at the SN to provide resources from the SN to
the UE. For bearers requiring SCG radio resources, this procedure is
used to add at least the first cell of the SCG. This procedure can also
be used to configure an SN terminated MCG bearer (where no SCG
configuration is needed). Figure 10.2.1-1 shows the Secondary Node
Addition procedure.

Figure 10.2.1-1: Secondary Node Addition procedure

1\. The MN decides to request the SN to allocate resources for a
specific E-RAB, indicating E-RAB characteristics (E-RAB parameters, TNL
address information corresponding to bearer type). In addition, for
bearers requiring SCG radio resources, MN indicates the requested SCG
configuration information, including the entire UE capabilities and the
UE capability coordination result. In this case, the MN also provides
the latest measurement results for SN to choose and configure the SCG
cell(s). The MN may request the SN to allocate radio resources for split
SRB operation. The MN always provides all the needed security
information to the SN (even if no SN terminated bearers are setup) to
enable SRB3 to be setup based on SN decision. In case of bearer options
that require X2-U resources between the MN and the SN, the MN provides
X2-U TNL address information for the respective E-RAB, X2-U DL TNL
address information for SN terminated bearers, X2-U UL TNL address
information for MN terminated bearers. In case of SN terminated split
bearers the MN provides the maximum QoS level that it can support. The
SN may reject the request.

NOTE 1: For split bearers, MCG and SCG resources may be requested of
such an amount, that the QoS for the respective E-RAB is guaranteed by
the exact sum of resources provided by the MCG and the SCG together, or
even more. For MN terminated split bearers, the MNs decision is
reflected in step 1 by the E-RAB parameters signalled to the SN, which
may differ from E-RAB parameters received over S1.

NOTE 2: For a specific E-RAB, the MN may request the direct
establishment of an SCG or a split bearer, i.e., without first having to
establish an MCG bearer. It is also allowed that all E-RABs can be
configured as SN terminated bearers, i.e. there is no E-RAB established
as an MN terminated bearer.

2\. If the RRM entity in the SN is able to admit the resource request,
it allocates respective radio resources and, dependent on the bearer
option, respective transport network resources. For bearers requiring
SCG radio resources, the SN triggers Random Access so that
synchronisation of the SN radio resource configuration can be performed.
The SN decides the PSCell and other SCG SCells and provides the new SCG
radio resource configuration to the MN in a *NR RRC configuration*
message contained in the *SgNB Addition Request Acknowledge* message. In
case of bearer options that require X2-U resources between the MN and
the SN, the SN provides X2-U TNL address information for the respective
E-RAB, X2-U UL TNL address information for SN terminated bearers, X2-U
DL TNL address information for MN terminated bearers. For SN terminated
bearers, the SN provides the S1-U DL TNL address information for the
respective E-RAB and security algorithm. If SCG radio resources have
been requested, the SCG radio resource configuration is provided.

NOTE 3: For the SN terminated split bearer option, the SN may either
decide to request resources from the MN of such an amount, that the QoS
for the respective E-RAB is guaranteed by the exact sum of resources
provided by the MN and the SN together, or even more. The SNs decision
is reflected in step 2 by the E-RAB parameters signalled to the MN,
which may differ from E-RAB parameters received in step 1. The QoS level
requested from the MN shall not exceed the level that the MN offered
when setting up the split bearer in step 1.

NOTE 4: In case of MN terminated bearers, transmission of user plane
data may take place after step 2.

NOTE 5: In case of SN terminated bearers, data forwarding and the SN
Status Transfer may take place after step 2.

3\. The MN sends to the UE the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message
including the NR RRC configuration message, without modifying it.

4\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies to MN with
*RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete* message, including a NR RRC
response message, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with
(part of) the configuration included in the
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, it performs the reconfiguration
failure procedure.

5\. The MN informs the SN that the UE has completed the reconfiguration
procedure successfully via *SgNB ReconfigurationComplete* message,
including the encoded NR RRC response message, if received from the UE.

6\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the SN. The order the UE
sends the *RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete* message and performs
the Random Access procedure towards the SCG is not defined. The
successful RA procedure towards the SCG is not required for a successful
completion of the RRC Connection Reconfiguration procedure.

7\. If PDCP termination point is changed to the SN for bearers using RLC
AM, and when RRC full configuration is not used, the MN sends the *SN
Status Transfer* message.

8\. For SN terminated bearers moved from the MN, dependent on the bearer
characteristics of the respective E-RAB, the MN may take actions to
minimise service interruption due to activation of EN-DC (Data
forwarding).

9-12. If applicable, the update of the UP path towards the EPC is
performed.

### 10.2.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The Secondary Node (SN) Addition procedure is initiated by the MN and is
used to establish a UE context at the SN in order to provide resources
from the SN to the UE. For bearers requiring SCG radio resources, this
procedure is used to add at least the initial SCG serving cell of the
SCG. This procedure can also be used to configure an SN terminated MCG
bearer (where no SCG configuration is needed). Figure 10.2.2-1 shows the
SN Addition procedure.

Figure 10.2.2-1: SN Addition procedure

1\. The MN decides to request the target SN to allocate resources for
one or more specific PDU Sessions/QoS Flows, indicating QoS Flows
characteristics (QoS Flow Level QoS parameters, PDU session level TNL
address information, and PDU session level Network Slice info). In
addition, for bearers requiring SCG radio resources, MN indicates the
requested SCG configuration information, including the entire UE
capabilities and the UE capability coordination result. In this case,
the MN also provides the latest measurement results for SN to choose and
configure the SCG cell(s). The MN may request the SN to allocate radio
resources for split SRB operation. In NGEN-DC and NR-DC, the MN always
provides all the needed security information to the SN (even if no SN
terminated bearers are setup) to enable SRB3 to be setup based on SN
decision.

For MN terminated bearer options that require Xn-U resources between the
MN and the SN, the MN provides Xn-U UL TNL address information. For SN
terminated bearers, the MN provides a list of available DRB IDs. The
S-NG-RAN node shall store this information and use it when establishing
SN terminated bearers. The SN may reject the request.

For SN terminated bearer options that require Xn-U resources between the
MN and the SN, the MN provides in step 1 a list of QoS flows per PDU
Sessions for which SCG resources are requested to be setup upon which
the SN decides how to map QoS flows to DRB.

NOTE 1: For split bearers, MCG and SCG resources may be requested of
such an amount, that the QoS for the respective QoS Flow is guaranteed
by the exact sum of resources provided by the MCG and the SCG together,
or even more. For MN terminated split bearers, the MN decision is
reflected in step 1 by the QoS Flow parameters signalled to the SN,
which may differ from QoS Flow parameters received over NG.

NOTE 2: For a specific QoS flow, the MN may request the direct
establishment of SCG and/or split bearers, i.e. without first having to
establish MCG bearers. It is also allowed that all QoS flows can be
mapped to SN terminated bearers, i.e. there is no QoS flow mapped to an
MN terminated bearer.

2\. If the RRM entity in the SN is able to admit the resource request,
it allocates respective radio resources and, dependent on the bearer
type options, respective transport network resources. For bearers
requiring SCG radio resources the SN triggers UE Random Access so that
synchronisation of the SN radio resource configuration can be performed.
The SN decides for the PSCell and other SCG SCells and provides the new
SCG radio resource configuration to the MN within an SN RRC
configuration message contained in the *SN Addition Request Acknowledge*
message. In case of bearer options that require Xn-U resources between
the MN and the SN, the SN provides Xn-U TNL address information for the
respective DRB, Xn-U UL TNL address information for SN terminated
bearers, Xn-U DL TNL address information for MN terminated bearers. For
SN terminated bearers, the SN provides the NG-U DL TNL address
information for the respective PDU Session and security algorithm. If
SCG radio resources have been requested, the SCG radio resource
configuration is provided.

NOTE 3: In case of MN terminated bearers, transmission of user plane
data may take place after step 2.

NOTE 4: In case of SN terminated bearers, data forwarding and the SN
Status Transfer may take place after step 2.

NOTE 5: For MN terminated bearers for which PDCP duplication with CA is
configured in NR SCG side, the MN allocates up to 4 separate Xn-U
bearers and the SN provides a logical channel ID for primary or split
secondary path to the MN.

For SN terminated bearers for which PDCP duplication with CA is
configured in NR MCG side, the SN allocates up to 4 separate Xn-U
bearers and the MN provides a logical channel ID for primary or split
secondary path to the SN via an additional MN-initiated SN modification
procedure.

2a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the MN provides Xn-U
DL TNL address information in the *Xn-U Address Indication* message.

3\. The MN sends the *MN RRC reconfiguration* message to the UE
including the SN RRC configuration message, without modifying it.

4\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies to MN with *MN RRC
reconfiguration complete* message, including an SN RRC response message
for SN, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *MN RRC reconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

5\. The MN informs the SN that the UE has completed the reconfiguration
procedure successfully via *SN Reconfiguration Complete* message,
including the SN RRC response message, if received from the UE.

6\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
performs synchronisation towards the PSCell configured by the SN. The
order the UE sends the *MN RRC reconfiguration complete* message and
performs the Random Access procedure towards the SCG is not defined. The
successful RA procedure towards the SCG is not required for a successful
completion of the RRC Connection Reconfiguration procedure.

7\. If PDCP termination point is changed to the SN for bearers using RLC
AM, and when RRC full configuration is not used, the MN sends the *SN
Status Transfer* message.

8\. For SN terminated bearers or QoS flows moved from the MN, dependent
on the characteristics of the respective bearer or QoS flow, the MN may
take actions to minimise service interruption due to activation of MR-DC
(Data forwarding).

9-12. If applicable, the update of the UP path towards the 5GC is
performed via a PDU Session Path Update procedure*.*

10.3 Secondary Node Modification (MN/SN initiated)
--------------------------------------------------

### 10.3.1 EN-DC

The Secondary Node Modification procedure may be initiated either by the
MN or by the SN and be used to modify, establish or release bearer
contexts, to transfer bearer contexts to and from the SN or to modify
other properties of the UE context within the same SN. It may also be
used to transfer an NR RRC message from the SN to the UE via the MN and
the response from the UE via MN to the SN (e.g. when SRB3 is not used).
In case of CPC, this procedure is used to configure or modify CPC
configuration within the same SN.

The Secondary Node modification procedure does not necessarily need to
involve signalling towards the UE.

**MN initiated SN Modification**

Figure 10.3.1-1: SN Modification procedure - MN initiated

The MN uses the procedure to initiate configuration changes of the SCG
within the same SN, e.g. the addition, modification or release of SCG
bearer(s) and the SCG RLC bearer of split bearer(s), as well as
configuration changes for SN terminated MCG bearers. Bearer termination
point change is realized by adding the new bearer configuration and
releasing the old bearer configuration within a single MN initiated SN
Modification procedure for the respective E-RAB. The MN uses this
procedure to perform handover within the same MN while keeping the SN.
The MN also uses the procedure to query the current SCG configuration,
e.g. when delta configuration is applied in an MN initiated SN change.
The MN also uses the procedure to provide the S-RLF related information
to the SN. The MN may not use the procedure to initiate the addition,
modification or release of SCG SCells. The SN may reject the request,
except if it concerns the release of SN terminated bearer(s) or the SCG
RLC bearer of MN terminated bearer(s), or if it is used to perform
handover within the same MN while keeping the SN. Figure 10.3.1-1 shows
an example signalling flow for an MN initiated SN Modification
procedure.

1\. The MN sends the *SgNB Modification Request* message, which may
contain bearer context related or other UE context related information,
data forwarding address information (if applicable) and the requested
SCG configuration information, including the UE capability coordination
result to be used as basis for the reconfiguration by the SN. In case a
security key update in the SN is required, a new ***SgNB Security Key*
is included.** In case of SCG RLC re-establishment for E-RABs configured
with an MN terminated bearer with an SCG RLC bearer for which no bearer
type change is performed, the MN provides a new UL GTP tunnel endpoint
to the SN. The SN shall continue sending UL PDCP PDUs to the MN with the
previous UL GTP tunnel endpoint until it re-establishes the RLC and use
the new UL GTP tunnel endpoint after re-establishment. In case of PDCP
re-establishment for E-RABs configured with an SN terminated bearer with
an MCG RLC bearer for which no bearer type change is performed, the MN
provides a new DL GTP tunnel endpoint to the SN. The SN shall continue
sending DL PDCP PDUs to the MN with the previous DL GTP tunnel endpoint
until it performs PDCP re-establishment and use the new DL GTP tunnel
endpoint starting with the PDCP re-establishment.

2\. The SN responds with the *SgNB Modification Request Acknowledge*
message, which may contain SCG radio resource configuration information
within a NR RRC configuration message and data forwarding address
information (if applicable). In case of a security key update (with or
without PSCell change), for E-RABs configured with the MN terminated
bearer option that require X2-U resources between the MN and the SN, for
which no bearer type change is performed, the SN provides a new DL GTP
tunnel endpoint to the MN. The MN shall continue sending DL PDCP PDUs to
the SN with the previous DL GTP tunnel endpoint until it performs PDCP
re-establishment or PDCP data recovery, and use the new DL GTP tunnel
endpoint starting with the PDCP re-establishment or data recovery. In
case of a security key update (with or without PSCell change), for
E-RABs configured with the SN terminated bearer option that require X2-U
resources between the MN and the SN, for which no bearer type change is
performed, the SN provides a new UL GTP tunnel endpoint to the MN. The
MN shall continue sending UL PDCP PDUs to the SN with the previous UL
GTP tunnel endpoint until it re-establishes the RLC and use the new UL
GTP tunnel endpoint after re-establishment.

NOTE 00: In case SN includes the indication of full RRC configuration in
*SgNB Modification Request Acknowledge* message to MN e.g. comprehension
failure upon intra-CU inter-DU change, MN performs release and add of
the NR SCG part of the configuration but does not release SN terminated
radio bearers towards the UE.

3-5. The MN initiates the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure,
including the NR RRC configuration message. The UE applies the new
configuration, synchronizes to the MN (if instructed, in case of
intra-MN handover) and replies with
*RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete*, including a NR RRC response
message, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of)
the configuration included in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration*
message, it performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

6\. Upon successful completion of the reconfiguration, the success of
the procedure is indicated in the *SgNB Reconfiguration Complete*
message.

7\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of
the SN as described in SgNB addition procedure. Otherwise, the UE may
perform UL transmission after having applied the new configuration.

8\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, and
when RRC full configuration is not used, the SN Status Transfer takes
place between the MN and the SN (Figure 10.3.1-1 depicts the case where
a bearer context is transferred from the MN to the SN).

NOTE 0: The SN may not be aware that a SN terminated bearer requested to
be released is reconfigured to a MN terminated bearer. The SN Status for
the released SN terminated bearers with RLC AM may also be transferred
to the MN.

9\. If applicable, data forwarding between MN and the SN takes place
(Figure 10.3.1-1 depicts the case where a bearer context is transferred
from the MN to the SN).

10\. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the
MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE
over the NR radio for the E-RABs to be released and for the E-RABs for
which the S1 UL GTP Tunnel endpoint was requested to be modified.

NOTE 1: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may
send the report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.

11\. If applicable, a path update is performed.

**SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement**

Figure 10.3.1-2: SN Modification procedure - SN initiated with MN
involvement

The SN uses the procedure to perform configuration changes of the SCG
within the same SN, e.g. to trigger the release of SCG bearer(s) and the
SCG RLC bearer of split bearer(s) (upon which the MN may release the
bearer or maintain current bearer type or reconfigure it to an MCG
bearer, either MN terminated or SN terminated), to trigger the release
of SCG resources (e.g., release SCG lower layer resources but keep SN),
and to trigger PSCell change (e.g. when a new security key is required
or when the MN needs to perform PDCP data recovery). The MN cannot
reject the release request of SCG bearer and the SCG RLC bearer of a
split bearer and the release request of SCG resources. The MN shall
either accept modification of all of the requested SCG bearer(s) and the
SCG RLC bearer of split bearer(s), or fail the procedure. Figure
10.3.1-2 shows an example signalling flow for an SN initiated SgNB
Modification procedure, with MN involvement.

1\. The SN sends the *SgNB Modification Required* message including a NR
RRC configuration message, which may contain bearer context related,
other UE context related information and the new SCG radio resource
configuration. For bearer release or modification, a corresponding E-RAB
list is included in the *SgNB Modification Required* message. In case of
change of security key, the *PDCP Change* *Indication* indicates that a
S-K~gNB~ update is required. In case the MN needs to perform PDCP data
recovery, the *PDCP Change* *Indication* indicates that PDCP data
recovery is required. In case SN decides to trigger SCG release, the
E-RABs to be modified list includes all the E-RABs of the UE with SCG
resource indicated as not present for each E-RAB.

The SN can decide whether the change of security key is required.

NOTE 1a: In case SN includes the indication of full RRC configuration in
*SgNB Modification Required* message to MN e.g. comprehension failure
upon intra-CU inter-DU change, MN performs release and add of the NR SCG
part of the configuration but does not release SN terminated radio
bearers towards the UE.

2/3. The MN initiated SN Modification procedure may be triggered by the
*SN Modification Required* message (e.g. to provide information such as
data forwarding addresses, new SN security key, measurement gap,
etc\...)

NOTE 2: If only SN security key is provided in step 2, the MN does not
need to wait for the reception of step 3 to initiate the RRC connection
reconfiguration procedure.

4\. The MN sends the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message including a
NR RRC configuration message to the UE including the new SCG radio
resource configuration.

5\. The UE applies the new configuration and sends the
*RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete* message, including an encoded NR
RRC response message, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with
(part of) the configuration included in the
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, it performs the reconfiguration
failure procedure.

6\. Upon successful completion of the reconfiguration, the success of
the procedure is indicated in the *SgNB Modification Confirm* message
containing the encoded NR RRC response message, if received from the UE.

7\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of
the SN as described in SN addition procedure. Otherwise, the UE may
perform UL transmission after having applied the new configuration.

8\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, and
when RRC full configuration is not used, the SN Status Transfer takes
place between the MN and the SN (Figure 10.3.1-2 depicts the case where
a bearer context is transferred from the SN to the MN).

NOTE 2a: The SN may not be aware that a SN terminated bearer requesting
to release is reconfigured to a MN terminated bearer. The SN Status for
the released SN terminated bearers with RLC AM may also be transferred
to the MN.

9\. If applicable, data forwarding between MN and the SN takes place
(Figure 10.3.1-2 depicts the case where a bearer context is transferred
from the SN to the MN).

10\. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the
MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE
over the NR radio for the E-RABs to be released.

NOTE 3: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may
send the report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.

11\. If applicable, a path update is performed.

**SN initiated SN Modification without MN involvement**

Figure 10.3.1-3: SN modification - SN initiated without MN involvement

The SN initiated modification without MN involved procedure is used to
modify the configuration within SN in case no coordination with MN is
required, including the addition/modification/release of SCG SCell and
PSCell change (e.g. when the security key does not need to be changed
and the MN does not need to be involved in PDCP recovery). The SN may
initiate the procedure to configure or modify CPC configuration within
the same SN. Figure 10.3.1-3 shows an example signalling flow for SN
initiated SN modification procedure, without MN involvement. The SN can
decide whether the Random Access procedure is required.

1\. The SN sends the *RRCReconfiguration* message to the UE through
SRB3. The UE applies the new configuration. In case the UE is unable to
comply with (part of) the configuration included in the
*RRCReconfiguration* message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure.

2\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of
the SN.

3\. The UE replies with the *RRCReconfigurationComplete* message.

**SN initiated Conditional SN Modification without MN involvement (SRB3
is used)**

Figure 10.3.1-3a: SN Modification - SN-initiated without MN involvement
and SRB3 is used to configure CPC.

The SN initiates the procedure when it needs to transfer an NR RRC
message to the UE and SRB3 is used to configure CPC.

1\. The SN sends the *RRCReconfiguration* message including CPC
configuration to the UE through SRB3.

2\. The UE applies the new configuration. In case the UE is unable to
comply with (part of) the configuration included in the
*RRCReconfiguration* message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure. The UE starts evaluating the CPC execution conditions for the
candidate PSCell(s). The UE maintains connection with the source PSCell
and replies with the *RRCReconfigurationComplete* message to the SN via
SRB3.

3\. If at least one CPC candidate PSCell satisfies the corresponding CPC
execution condition, the UE detaches from the source PSCell, applies the
stored configuration corresponding to the selected candidate PSCell and
synchronises to the candidate PSCell.

4\. The UE completes the CPC execution procedure by sending an
*RRCReconfigurationComplete* message to the new PSCell.

**Transfer of an NR RRC message to/from the UE (when SRB3 is not used)**

Figure 10.3.1-4: Transfer of an NR RRC message to/from the UE

The SN initiates the procedure when it needs to transfer an NR RRC
message to the UE and SRB3 is not used.

1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the *SgNB Modification
Required* to the MN.

2\. The MN forwards the NR RRC message to the UE in the
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message.

3\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies with the
*RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete* message. In case the UE is unable
to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the NR RRC
message, it performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

4\. The MN forwards the NR RRC response message, if received from the
UE, to the SN in the *SgNB Modification Confirm* message.

5\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of
the SN as described in SgNB Addition procedure. Otherwise the UE may
perform UL transmission after having applied the new configuration.

**SN initiated Conditional SN Modification without MN involvement (SRB3
is not used)**

Figure 10.3.1-5: SN Modification - SN-initiated without MN involvement
and SRB3 is not used to configure CPC

The SN initiates the procedure when it needs to transfer an NR RRC
message to the UE and SRB3 is not used to configure CPC.

1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the *SgNB Modification
Required* to the MN including the SN RRC reconfiguration message with
CPC configuration.

2\. The MN forwards the SN RRC reconfiguration message to the UE
including it in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message.

3\. The UE replies with the *RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete*
message by including the SN RRC reconfiguration complete message. In
case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration
included in the SN RRC reconfiguration message, it performs the
reconfiguration failure procedure. The UE maintains connection with
source PSCell after receiving CPC configuration, and starts evaluating
the CPC execution conditions for the candidate PSCell(s).

4\. The MN forwards the SN RRC response message, if received from the
UE, to the SN by including it in the *SgNB Modification Confirm*
message.

5\. If at least one CPC candidate PSCell satisfies the corresponding CPC
execution condition, the UE completes the CPC execution procedure by an
*ULInformationTransferMRDC* message to the MN which includes an embedded
*RRCReconfigurationComplete* message to the selected target PSCell.

6\. The *RRCReconfigurationComplete* message is forwarded to the SN
embedded in *RRC Transfer* message.

7\. The UE detaches from the source PSCell, applies the stored
corresponding configuration and synchronises to the selected candidate
PSCell.

### 10.3.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The SN Modification procedure may be initiated either by the MN or by
the SN and be used to modify the current user plane resource
configuration (e.g. related to PDU session, QoS flow or DRB) or to
modify other properties of the UE context within the same SN. It may
also be used to transfer an RRC message from the SN to the UE via the MN
and the response from the UE via MN to the SN (e.g. when SRB3 is not
used). In NGEN-DC and NR-DC, the RRC message is an NR message (i.e.,
*RRCReconfiguration*) whereas in NE-DC it is an E-UTRA message (i.e.,
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration*). In case of CPC, this procedure is used
to configure or modify CPC configuration within the same SN. The CPC
configuration cannot be used to configure target PSCell in NE-DC or in
NGEN-DC.

The SN modification procedure does not necessarily need to involve
signalling towards the UE.

**MN initiated SN Modification**

Figure 10.3.2-1: SN Modification procedure - MN initiated

The MN uses the procedure to initiate configuration changes of the SCG
within the same SN, including addition, modification or release of the
user plane resource configuration. The MN uses this procedure to perform
handover within the same MN while keeping the SN, when the SN needs to
be involved (i.e. in NGEN-DC). The MN also uses the procedure to query
the current SCG configuration, e.g. when delta configuration is applied
in an MN initiated SN change. The MN also uses the procedure to provide
the S-RLF related information to the SN or to provide additional
available DRB IDs to be used for SN terminated bearers. The MN may not
use the procedure to initiate the addition, modification or release of
SCG SCells. The SN may reject the request, except if it concerns the
release of the user plane resource configuration, or if it is used to
perform handover within the same MN while keeping the SN. Figure
10.3.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for an MN initiated SN
Modification procedure.

1\. The MN sends the *SN Modification Request* message, which may
contain user plane resource configuration related or other UE context
related information, PDU session level Network Slice info and the
requested SCG configuration information, including the UE capabilities
coordination result to be used as basis for the reconfiguration by the
SN. In case a security key update in the SN is required, a new ***SN
Security Key* is included.** In case the PDCP data recovery in the SN is
required, the *PDCP Change* *Indication* is included which indicates
that PDCP data recovery is required in SN.

2\. The SN responds with the *SN Modification Request Acknowledge*
message, which may contain new SCG radio configuration information
within an SN RRC reconfiguration message*,* and data forwarding address
information (if applicable).

NOTE 1: For MN terminated bearers to be setup for which PDCP duplication
with CA is configured in NR SCG side, the MN allocates up to 4 separate
Xn-U bearers and the SN provides a logical channel ID for primary or
split secondary path to the MN.

For SN terminated bearers to be setup for which PDCP duplication with CA
is configured in NR MCG side, the SN allocates up to 4 separate Xn-U
bearers and the MN provides a logical channel ID for primary or split
secondary path to the SN via an additional MN-initiated SN modification
procedure.

2a. When applicable, the MN provides data forwarding address information
to the SN. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the MN
provides Xn-U DL TNL address information in the *Xn-U Address
Indication* message.

3/4. The MN initiates the RRC reconfiguration procedure, including an
*SN RRC reconfiguration* message. The UE applies the new configuration,
synchronizes to the MN (if instructed, in case of intra-MN handover) and
replies with *MN RRC reconfiguration complete* message, including an SN
RRC response message, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with
(part of) the configuration included in the *MN RRC reconfiguration*
message, it performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

5\. Upon successful completion of the reconfiguration, the success of
the procedure is indicated in the *SN Reconfiguration Complete* message.

6\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of
the SN as described in SN addition procedure. Otherwise, the UE may
perform UL transmission after having applied the new configuration.

7\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, and
when RRC full configuration is not used, the SN Status Transfer takes
place between the MN and the SN (Figure 10.3.2-1 depicts the case where
a bearer context is transferred from the MN to the SN).

8\. If applicable, data forwarding between MN and the SN takes place
(Figure 10.3.2-1 depicts the case where a user plane resource
configuration related context is transferred from the MN to the SN).

9\. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the MN
and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as
described in clause 10.11.2.

NOTE 2: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may
send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is
stopped.

10\. If applicable, a PDU Session path update procedure is performed.

**SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement**

Figure 10.3.2-2: SN Modification procedure - SN initiated with MN
involvement

The SN uses the procedure to perform configuration changes of the SCG
within the same SN, e.g. to trigger the modification/release of the user
plane resource configuration, to trigger the release of SCG resources
(e.g., release SCG lower layer resources but keep SN), and to trigger
PSCell changes (e.g. when a new security key is required or when the MN
needs to perform PDCP data recovery). The MN cannot reject the release
request of PDU session/QoS flows and the release request of SCG
resources. The SN also uses the procedure to request the MN to provide
more DRB IDs to be used for SN terminated bearers or to return DRB IDs
used for SN terminated bearers that are not needed any longer. Figure
10.3.2-2 shows an example signalling flow for SN initiated SN
Modification procedure.

1\. The SN sends the *SN Modification Required* message including an SN
RRC reconfiguration message, which may contain user plane resource
configuration related context, other UE context related information and
the new radio resource configuration of SCG. In case of change of
security key, the *PDCP Change* *Indication* indicates that an SN
security key update is required. In case the MN needs to perform PDCP
data recovery, the *PDCP Change* *Indication* indicates that PDCP data
recovery is required.

The SN can decide whether the change of security key is required.

2/3. The MN initiated SN Modification procedure may be triggered by *SN
Modification Required* message, e.g. when an SN security key change
needs to be applied.

NOTE 3: For SN terminated bearers to be setup for which PDCP duplication
with CA is configured in NR MCG side, the SN allocates up to 4 separate
Xn-U bearers and the MN provides a logical channel ID for primary or
split secondary path to the SN via the nested MN-initiated SN
modification procedure.

4\. The MN sends the *MN RRC reconfiguration* message to the UE
including the SN RRC reconfiguration message with the new SCG radio
resource configuration.

5\. The UE applies the new configuration and sends the *MN RRC
reconfiguration complete* message, including an SN RRC response message,
if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *MN RRC reconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

6\. Upon successful completion of the reconfiguration, the success of
the procedure is indicated in the *SN Modification Confirm* message
including the SN RRC response message, if received from the UE.

7\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell
configured by the SN as described in SN Addition procedure. Otherwise,
the UE may perform UL transmission directly after having applied the new
configuration.

8\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, and
when RRC full configuration is not used, the SN Status Transfer takes
place between the MN and the SN (Figure 10.3.2-2 depicts the case where
a bearer context is transferred from the SN to the MN).

9\. If applicable, data forwarding between MN and the SN takes place
(Figure 10.3.2-2 depicts the case where a user plane resource
configuration related context is transferred from the SN to the MN).

10\. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the
MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE
as described in clause 10.11.2.

NOTE 4: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may
send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is
stopped.

11\. If applicable, a PDU Session path update procedure is performed.

**SN initiated SN Modification without MN involvement**

This procedure is not supported for NE-DC.

Figure 10.3.2-3: SN Modification -- SN initiated without MN involvement

The SN initiated SN modification procedure without MN involvement is
used to modify the configuration within SN in case no coordination with
MN is required, including the addition/modification/release of SCG SCell
and PSCell change (e.g. when the security key does not need to be
changed and the MN does not need to be involved in PDCP recovery). The
SN may initiate the procedure to configure or modify CPC configuration
within the same SN. Figure 10.3.2-3 shows an example signalling flow for
SN initiated SN modification procedure without MN involvement. The SN
can decide whether the Random Access procedure is required.

1\. The SN sends the *SN RRC reconfiguration* message to the UE through
SRB3.

2\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies with the *SN RRC
reconfiguration complete* message. In case the UE is unable to comply
with (part of) the configuration included in the *SN RRC
reconfiguration* message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure.

3\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of
the SN as described in SN Addition procedure. Otherwise the UE may
perform UL transmission after having applied the new configuration.

**SN initiated Conditional SN Modification without MN involvement (SRB3
is used)**

This procedure is not supported for NE-DC and NGEN-DC.

Figure 10.3.2-3a: SN Modification -- SN-initiated without MN involvement
and SRB3 is used to configure CPC.

The SN initiates the procedure when it needs to transfer an NR RRC
message to the UE and SRB3 is used to configure CPC.

1\. The SN sends the *SN RRC reconfiguration* including CPC
configuration to the UE through SRB3.

2\. The UE applies the new configuration. In case the UE is unable to
comply with (part of) the configuration included in the SN RRC
reconfiguration message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure. The UE starts evaluating the CPC execution conditions for the
candidate PSCell(s). The UE maintains connection with the source PSCell
and replies with the *RRCReconfigurationComplete* message to the SN via
SRB3.

3\. If at least one CPC candidate PSCell satisfies the corresponding CPC
execution condition, the UE detaches from the source PSCell, applies the
stored configuration corresponding to the selected candidate PSCell and
synchronises to the candidate PSCell.

4\. The UE completes the CPC execution procedure by sending an
*RRCReconfigurationComplete* message to the new PSCell.

**Transfer of an NR RRC message to/from the UE (when SRB3 is not used)**

This procedure is supported for all the MR-DC options.

Figure 10.3.2-4: Transfer of an NR RRC message to/from the UE

The SN initiates the procedure when it needs to transfer an NR RRC
message to the UE and SRB3 is not used.

1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the *SN Modification
Required* to the MN including the SN RRC reconfiguration message.

2\. The MN forwards the SN RRC reconfiguration message to the UE
including it in the *RRC reconfiguration* message.

3\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies with the *RRC
reconfiguration complete* message by including the SN RRC
reconfiguration complete message. In case the UE is unable to comply
with (part of) the configuration included in the SN RRC reconfiguration
message, it performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

4\. The MN forwards the SN RRC response message, if received from the
UE, to the SN by including it in the *SN Modification Confirm* message.

5\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of
the SN as described in SN Addition procedure. Otherwise the UE may
perform UL transmission after having applied the new configuration.

**SN initiated Conditional SN Modification without MN involvement (SRB3
is not used)**

This procedure is not supported for NE-DC and NGEN-DC.

Figure 10.3.2-5: SN Modification -- SN-initiated without MN involvement
and SRB3 is not used to configure CPC

The SN initiates the procedure when it needs to transfer an NR RRC
message to the UE and SRB3 is not used to configure CPC.

1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the *SN Modification
Required* to the MN including the SN RRC reconfiguration message with
CPC configuration.

2\. The MN forwards the SN RRC reconfiguration message to the UE
including it in the *RRCReconfiguration* message.

3\. The UE replies with the *RRCReconfigurationComplete* message by
including the SN RRC reconfiguration complete message. In case the UE is
unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the SN RRC
reconfiguration message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure. The UE maintains connection with source PSCell after
receiving CPC configuration, and starts evaluating the CPC execution
conditions for the candidate PSCell(s).

4\. The MN forwards the SN RRC response message, if received from the
UE, to the SN by including it in the *SN Modification Confirm* message.

5\. If at least one CPC candidate PSCell satisfies the corresponding CPC
execution condition, the UE completes the CPC execution procedure by an
*ULInformationTransferMRDC* message to the MN which includes an embedded
*RRCReconfigurationComplete* message to the selected target PSCell.

6\. The *RRCReconfigurationComplete* message is forwarded to the SN
embedded in *RRC Transfer* message.

7\. The UE detaches from the source PSCell, applies the stored
corresponding configuration and synchronises to the selected candidate
PSCell.

10.4 Secondary Node Release (MN/SN initiated)
---------------------------------------------

### 10.4.1 EN-DC

The Secondary Node Release procedure may be initiated either by the MN
or by the SN and is used to initiate the release of the UE context at
the SN. The recipient node of this request can reject it, e.g., if a SN
change procedure is triggered by the SN.

It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE, e.g.,
in case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure
in MN.

**MN initiated SN Release**

Figure 10.4.1-1: SN Release procedure -- MN initiated

Figure 10.4.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN initiated
Secondary Node Release procedure when SN Release is confirmed by SN.

1\. The MN initiates the procedure by sending the *SgNB Release Request*
message. If applicable, the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the
SN.

2\. The SN confirms SN Release by sending the *SgNB Release Request
Acknowledge* message. If appropriate, the SN may reject SN Release, e.g.
if the SN change procedure is triggered by the SN.

3/4. If required, the MN indicates in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration*
message towards the UE that the UE shall release the entire SCG
configuration. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

NOTE 1: If data forwarding is applied, timely coordination between steps
1 and 2 may minimize gaps in service provision, this is however regarded
to be an implementation matter.

5\. For bearers using RLC AM, the SN sends the *SN Status Transfer*
message.

6\. Data forwarding from the SN to the MN may start.

7\. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the MN
and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE over
the NR radio for the related E-RABs.

NOTE 2: If data forwarding is applied, the order the SN sends the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message and starts data forwarding
with MN is not defined i.e., step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN
does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message.

8\. If applicable, the path update procedure is initiated.

9\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the SN releases
radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue.

**SN initiated SN Release**

Figure 10.4.1-2: SN Release procedure -- SN initiated

Figure 10.4.1-2 shows an example signalling flow for the SN initiated
Secondary Node Release procedure.

1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the *SgNB Release
Required* message which may contain inter-node message to support delta
configuration.

2\. If applicable, the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the SN
in the *SgNB Release Confirm* message. The SN may start data forwarding
and stop providing user data to the UE as early as it receives the *SgNB
Release Confirm* message.

3/4. If required, the MN indicates in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration*
message towards the UE that the UE shall release the entire SCG
configuration. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

NOTE 3: If data forwarding is applied, timely coordination between steps
2 and 3 may minimize gaps in service provision. This is however regarded
to be an implementation matter.

5\. For bearers using RLC AM, the SN sends the *SN Status Transfer*
message.

6\. Data forwarding from the SN to the MN may start.

7\. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the MN
and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE over
the NR radio for the related E-RABs.

NOTE 4: If data forwarding is applied, the order the SN sends the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message and starts data forwarding
with MN is not defined i.e., step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN
does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message.

8\. If applicable, the path update procedure is initiated.

9\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the SN releases
radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue.

### 10.4.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The SN Release procedure may be initiated either by the MN or by the SN
and is used to initiate the release of the UE context and relevant
resources at the SN. The recipient node of this request can reject it,
e.g., if an SN change procedure is triggered by the SN.

**MN initiated SN Release**

Figure 10.4.2-1: SN release procedure - MN initiated

Figure 10.4.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN initiated SN
Release procedure.

1\. The MN initiates the procedure by sending the *SN Release Request*
message.

2\. The SN confirms SN Release by sending the *SN Release Request
Acknowledge* message. If appropriate, the SN may reject SN Release,
e.g., if the SN change procedure is triggered by the SN.

2a. When applicable, the MN provides forwarding address information to
the SN.

NOTE 0: The MN may send the *Xn-U Address Indication* message to provide
forwarding address information before step 2.

3/4. If required, the MN indicates in the *MN RRC reconfiguration*
message towards the UE that the UE shall release the entire SCG
configuration. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *MN RRC reconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

NOTE 1: If data forwarding is applied, timely coordination between steps
1 and 2 may minimize gaps in service provision, this is however regarded
to be an implementation matter.

5\. If PDCP termination point is changed to the MN for bearers using RLC
AM, the SN sends the *SN Status Transfer* message.

6\. Data forwarding from the SN to the MN may start.

7\. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the MN
and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as
described in clause 10.11.2.

NOTE 1a: If data forwarding is applied, the order the SN sends the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message and starts data forwarding
with MN is not defined i.e., step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN
does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message.

8\. If applicable, the PDU Session path update procedure is initiated.

9\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the SN releases
radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue.

**SN initiated SN Release**

Figure 10.4.2-2: SN release procedure - SN initiated

Figure 10.4.2-2 shows an example signalling flow for the SN initiated SN
Release procedure.

1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the *SN Release Required*
message which may contain inter-node message to support delta
configuration.

2\. If data forwarding is requested, the MN provides data forwarding
addresses to the SN in the *SN Release Confirm* message. The SN may
start data forwarding and stop providing user data to the UE as early as
it receives the *SN Release Confirm* message.

3/4. If required, the MN indicates in the *MN RRC reconfiguration*
message towards the UE that the UE shall release the entire SCG
configuration. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *MN RRC reconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

NOTE 2: If data forwarding is applied, timely coordination between steps
2 and 3 may minimize gaps in service provision. This is however regarded
to be an implementation matter.

5\. If PDCP termination point is changed to the MN for bearers using RLC
AM, the SN sends the *SN Status Transfer message*.

6\. Data forwarding from the SN to the MN may start.

7\. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the MN
and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as
described in clause 10.11.2.

NOTE 3: If data forwarding is applied, the order the SN sends the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message and starts data forwarding
with MN is not defined i.e., step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN
does not need to wait for the end of data forwarding to send the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message.

8\. If applicable, the PDU Session path update procedure is initiated.

9\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the SN releases
radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue.

10.5 Secondary Node Change (MN/SN initiated)
--------------------------------------------

### 10.5.1 EN-DC

The Secondary Node Change procedure is initiated either by MN or SN and
used to transfer a UE context from a source SN to a target SN and to
change the SCG configuration in UE from one SN to another.

NOTE 1: Inter-RAT SN change procedure with single RRC reconfiguration is
not supported in this version of the protocol (i.e. no transition from
EN-DC to DC).

The Secondary Node Change procedure always involves signalling over MCG
SRB towards the UE.

**MN initiated SN Change**

Figure 10.5.1-1: SN Change -- MN initiated

Figure 10.5.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN initiated
Secondary Node Change:

1/2. The MN initiates the SN change by requesting the target SN to
allocate resources for the UE by means of the SgNB Addition procedure.
The MN may include measurement results related to the target SN. If
forwarding is needed, the target SN provides forwarding addresses to the
MN. The target SN includes the indication of the full or delta RRC
configuration.

NOTE 2: The MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure
(to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration before step
1.

NOTE 2a: In case the target SN includes the indication of the full RRC
configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer
configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part
towards the UE.

3\. If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN
initiates the release of the source SN resources including a Cause
indicating SCG mobility. The Source SN may reject the release. If data
forwarding is needed the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the
source SN. If direct data forwarding is used for SN terminated bearers,
the MN provides data forwarding addresses as received from the target SN
to source SN. Reception of the *SgNB Release Request* message triggers
the source SN to stop providing user data to the UE and, if applicable,
to start data forwarding.

4/5. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN
indicates to the UE the new configuration in the
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message including the NR RRC
configuration message generated by the target SN. The UE applies the new
configuration and sends the *RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete*
message, including the encoded NR RRC response message for the target
SN, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

6\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
MN informs the target SN via *SgNBReconfigurationComplete* message with
the encoded NR RRC response message for the target SN, if received from
the UE.

7\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the target SN.

8\. For SN terminated bearers using RLC AM, the source SN sends the *SN
Status Transfer* message, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if
needed.

9\. If applicable, data forwarding from the source SN takes place. It
may be initiated as early as the source SN receives the *SgNB Release
Request* message from the MN.

10\. The source SN sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data Usage Report* message
to the MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from
the UE over the NR radio for the related E-RABs.

NOTE 3: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may
send the report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.

11-15. If applicable, a path update is triggered by the MN.

16\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the source SN
releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE
context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.

**SN initiated SN Change**

Figure 10.5.1-2: SN Change -- SN initiated

Figure 10.5.1-2 shows an example signalling flow for the Secondary Node
Change initiated by the SN:

1\. The source SN initiates the SN change procedure by sending *SgNB
Change Required* message which contains target SN ID information and may
include the SCG configuration (to support delta configuration) and
measurement results related to the target SN.

2/3. The MN requests the target SN to allocate resources for the UE by
means of the SgNB Addition procedure, including the measurement results
related to the target SN received from the source SN. If forwarding is
needed, the target SN provides forwarding addresses to the MN. The
target SN includes the indication of the full or delta RRC
configuration.

NOTE 3a: In case the target SN includes the indication of the full RRC
configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer
configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part
towards the UE.

4/5. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN
indicates the new configuration to the UE in the
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message including the NR RRC
configuration message generated by the target SN. The UE applies the new
configuration and sends the *RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete*
message, including the encoded NR RRC response message for the target
SN, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

6\. If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN
confirms the release of the source SN resources. If data forwarding is
needed the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the source SN. If
direct data forwarding is used for SN terminated bearers, the MN
provides data forwarding addresses as received from the target SN to
source SN. Reception of the *SgNB Change Confirm* message triggers the
source SN to stop providing user data to the UE and, if applicable, to
start data forwarding.

7\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
MN informs the target SN via *SgNB Reconfiguration Complete* message
with the encoded NR RRC response message for the target SN, if received
from the UE.

8\. The UE synchronizes to the target SN.

9\. For SN terminated bearers using RLC AM, the source SN sends the *SN
Status Transfer* message, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if
needed.

10\. If applicable, data forwarding from the source SN takes place. It
may be initiated as early as the source SN receives the *SgNB Change
Confirm* message from the MN.

11\. The source SN sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data Usage Report* message
to the MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from
the UE over the NR radio for the related E-RABs.

NOTE 4: The order the source SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage
Report* message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not
defined. The SgNB may send the report when the transmission of the
related bearer is stopped.

12-16. If applicable, a path update is triggered by the MN.

17\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the source SN
releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE
context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.

### 10.5.2 MR-DC with 5GC

**MN initiated SN Change**

The MN initiated SN change procedure is used to transfer a UE context
from the source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in
UE from one SN to another.

The Secondary Node Change procedure always involves signalling over MCG
SRB towards the UE.

Figure 10.5.2-1: SN change procedure - MN initiated

Figure 10.5.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for the SN Change
initiated by the MN:

1/2. The MN initiates the SN change by requesting the target SN to
allocate resources for the UE by means of the SN Addition procedure. The
MN may include measurement results related to the target SN. If data
forwarding is needed, the target SN provides data forwarding addresses
to the MN. The target SN includes the indication of the full or delta
RRC configuration.

NOTE 1: The MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure
(to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration and to
allow provision of data forwarding related information before step 1.

2a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the MN provides Xn-U
DL TNL address information in the *Xn-U Address Indication* message.

3\. If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN
initiates the release of the source SN resources including a Cause
indicating SCG mobility. The Source SN may reject the release. If data
forwarding is needed the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the
source SN. If direct data forwarding is used for SN terminated bearers,
the MN provides data forwarding addresses as received from the target SN
to source SN. Reception of the *SN Release Request* message triggers the
source SN to stop providing user data to the UE.

4/5. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN
indicates the new configuration to the UE in the *MN RRC reconfiguration
message* including the target SN RRC reconfiguration message. The UE
applies the new configuration and sends the *MN RRC reconfiguration
complete* message, including the SN RRC response message for the target
SN, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the *MN RRC reconfiguration* message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

6\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
MN informs the target SN via *SN Reconfiguration Complete* message with
the included SN RRC response message for the target SN, if received from
the UE.

7\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources the UE
synchronizes to the target SN.

8\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the
source SN sends the *SN Status Transfer* message, which the MN sends
then to the target SN, if needed.

9\. If applicable, data forwarding from the source SN takes place. It
may be initiated as early as the source SN receives the *SN Release
Request* message from the MN.

10\. The source SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message
to the MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from
the UE as described in clause 10.11.2.

NOTE 2: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may
send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is
stopped.

11-15. If applicable, a PDU Session path update procedure is triggered
by the MN.

16\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the source SN
releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE
context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue

**SN initiated SN Change**

The SN initiated SN change procedure is used to transfer a UE context
from the source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in
UE from one SN to another.

Figure 10.5.2-2: SN change procedure - SN initiated

Figure 10.5.2-2 shows an example signalling flow for the SN Change
initiated by the SN:

1\. The source SN initiates the SN change procedure by sending the *SN
Change Required* message, which contains a candidate target node ID and
may include the SCG configuration (to support delta configuration) and
measurement results related to the target SN.

2/3. The MN requests the target SN to allocate resources for the UE by
means of the SN Addition procedure, including the measurement results
related to the target SN received from the source SN. If data forwarding
is needed, the target SN provides data forwarding addresses to the MN.
The target SN includes the indication of the full or delta RRC
configuration.

3a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the MN provides Xn-U
DL TNL address information in the *Xn-U Address Indication* message.

4/5. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN
indicates the new configuration to the UE in the *MN RRC
reconfiguration* message including the SN RRC reconfiguration message
generated by the target SN. The UE applies the new configuration and
sends the *MN RRC reconfiguration complete* message, including the SN
RRC response message for the target SN, if needed. In case the UE is
unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the *MN
RRC reconfiguration* message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure.

6\. If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN
confirms the change of the source SN. If data forwarding is needed the
MN provides data forwarding addresses to the source SN. If direct data
forwarding is used for SN terminated bearers, the MN provides data
forwarding addresses as received from the target SN to source SN.
Reception of the *SN Change Confirm* message triggers the source SN to
stop providing user data to the UE and, if applicable, to start data
forwarding.

7\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
MN informs the target SN via *SN Reconfiguration Complete* message with
the included SN RRC response message for the target SN, if received from
the UE.

8\. The UE synchronizes to the target SN.

9\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the
source SN sends the *SN Status Transfer* message, which the MN sends
then to the target SN, if needed.

10\. If applicable, data forwarding from the source SN takes place. It
may be initiated as early as the source SN receives the *SN Change
Confirm* message from the MN.

11\. The source SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message
to the MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from
the UE as described in clause 10.11.2.

NOTE 3: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not defined.
The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow
is stopped.

12-16. If applicable, a PDU Session path update procedure is triggered
by the MN.

17\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the source SN
releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE
context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.

10.6 PSCell change
------------------

In MR-DC, a PSCell change does not always require a security key change.

If a security key change is required, this is performed through a
synchronous SCG reconfiguration procedure towards the UE involving
random access on PSCell and a security key change, during which the MAC
entity configured for SCG is reset and RLC configured for SCG is
re-established regardless of the bearer type(s) established on SCG. For
SN terminated bearers, PDCP is re-established. In all MR-DC options, to
perform this procedure within the same SN, the SN Modification procedure
as described in clause 10.3 is used, setting the *PDCP Change
Indication* to indicate that a S-K~gNB~ (for EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC)
or S-K~eNB~ (for NE-DC) update is required when the procedure is
initiated by the SN or including the *SgNB Security Key* / *SN Security
Key* when the procedure is initiated by the MN. In all MR-DC options, to
perform a PSCell change between different SN nodes, the SN Change
procedure as described in clause 10.5 is used.

If a security key change is not required (only possible in EN-DC,
NGEN-DC and NR-DC), this is performed through a synchronous SCG
reconfiguration procedure without security key change towards the UE
involving random access on PSCell, during which the MAC entity
configured for SCG is reset and RLC configured for SCG is re-established
regardless of the bearer type(s) established on SCG. For DRBs using RLC
AM mode PDCP data recovery applies, and for DRBs using RLC UM no action
is performed in PDCP. For SRB3 PDCP may discard all stored SDUs and
PDUs. Unless MN terminated SCG or split bearers are configured, this
does not require MN involvement. In this case, if location information
was requested for the UE, the SN informs the MN about the PSCell change
(as part of location information) using the SN initiated SN modification
procedure independently from the reconfiguration of the UE. In case of
MN terminated SCG or split bearers, the SN initiated SN Modification
procedure as described in clause 10.3 is used, setting the *PDCP Change
Indication* to indicate that a PDCP data recovery is required.

A Conditional PSCell Change (CPC) is defined as a PSCell change that is
executed by the UE when execution condition(s) is met. The UE starts
evaluating the execution condition(s) upon receiving the CPC
configuration, and stops evaluating the execution condition(s) once
PSCell change or PCell change is triggered. Only intra-SN CPC without MN
involvement is supported.

The following principles apply to CPC:

\- The CPC configuration contains the configuration of CPC candidate
PSCell(s) and execution condition(s) generated by the SN.

\- An execution condition may consist of one or two trigger condition(s)
(CPC events A3/A5, as defined in TS 38.331 \[4\]). Only single RS type
is supported and at most two different trigger quantities (e.g. RSRP and
RSRQ, RSRP and SINR, etc.) can be configured simultaneously for the
evalution of CPC execution condition of a single candidate PSCell.

\- Before any CPC execution condition is satisfied, upon reception of
PSCell change command or PCell change command, the UE executes the
PSCell change procedure as described in clause 10.3 and 10.5 or the
PCell change procedure as described in clause 9.2.3.2 in TS 38.300\[3\]
or clause 10.1.2.1 in TS 36.300 \[2\], regardless of any previously
received CPC configuration. Upon the successful completion of PSCell
change procedure or PCell change procedure, the UE releases all stored
CPC configurations.

\- While executing CPC, the UE is not required to continue evaluating
the execution condition of other candidate PSCell(s).

\- Once the CPC procedure is executed successfully, the UE releases all
stored CPC configurations.

\- Upon the release of SCG, the UE releases the stored CPC
configurations.

CPC configuration in HO command, PSCell change command or conditional
reconfiguration is not supported.

10.7 Inter-Master Node handover with/without Secondary Node change
------------------------------------------------------------------

### 10.7.1 EN-DC

Inter-Master Node handover with/without MN initiated Secondary Node
change is used to transfer context data from a source MN to a target MN
while the context at the SN is kept or moved to another SN. During an
Inter-Master Node handover, the target MN decides whether to keep or
change the SN (or release the SN, as described in clause 10.8).

NOTE 1: Void.

Figure 10.7.1-1: Inter-MN handover with/without MN initiated SN change

Figure 10.7.1-1 shows an example signaling flow for inter-Master Node
handover with or without MN initiated Secondary Node change:

NOTE 2: For an inter-Master Node handover without Secondary Node change,
the source SN and the target SN shown in Figure 10.7.1-1 are the same
node.

1\. The source MN starts the handover procedure by initiating the X2
Handover Preparation procedure including both MCG and SCG configuration.
The source MN includes the (source) SN UE X2AP ID, SN ID and the UE
context in the (source) SN in the *Handover Request* message.

NOTE 3: The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification
procedure (to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration
before step 1.

2\. If the target MN decides to keep the UE context in SN, the target MN
sends *SgNB Addition Request* to the SN including the SN UE X2AP ID as a
reference to the UE context in the SN that was established by the source
MN. If the target MN decides to change the SN allowing delta
configuration, the target MN sends the *SgNB Addition Request* to the
target SN including the UE context in the source SN that was established
by the source MN. Otherwise, the target MN may send the *SgNB Addition
Request* to the target SN including neither the SN UE X2AP ID nor the UE
context in the source SN that was established by the source MN.

3\. The (target) *SgNB* replies with *SN Addition Request Acknowledge*.
The (target) SN may include the indication of the full or delta RRC
configuration.

NOTE 3a: In case the target SN includes the indication of the full RRC
configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer
configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part
towards the UE.

4\. The target MN includes within the *Handover Request Acknowledge*
message a transparent container to be sent to the UE as an RRC message
to perform the handover, and may also provide forwarding addresses to
the source MN. The target MN indicates to the source MN that the UE
context in the SN is kept if the target MN and the SN decided to keep
the UE context in the SN in step 2 and step 3.

5\. The source MN sends *SgNB Release Request* to the (source) SN
including a Cause indicating MCG mobility. The (source) SN acknowledges
the release request. The source MN indicates to the (source) SN that the
UE context in SN is kept, if it receives the indication from the target
MN. If the indication as the UE context kept in SN is included, the SN
keeps the UE context.

6\. The source MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration.

7/8. The UE synchronizes to the target MN and replies with
*RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete* message.

9\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the (target) SN.

NOTE 3b: The order the UE performs Random Access towards the MN (step 7)
and performs the Random Access procedure towards the SN (step 9) is not
defined.

10\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
target MN informs the (target) SN via *SgNB Reconfiguration Complete*
message.

11a. The SN sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data Usage Report* message to the
source MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from
the UE over the NR radio for the related E-RABs.

NOTE 4: The order the source SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage
Report* message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not
defined. The SgNB may send the report when the transmission of the
related bearer is stopped.

11b. The source MN sends the *Secondary RAT Report* message to MME to
provide information on the used NR resource.

12\. For bearers using RLC AM, the source MN sends the *SN Status
Transfe*r message, including, if needed, SN Status received from the
source SN to the target MN. The target forwards the SN Status to the
target SN, if needed.

13\. If applicable, data forwarding takes place from the source side. If
the SN is kept, data forwarding may be omitted for SN-terminated bearers
kept in the SN.

14-17. The target MN initiates the S1 Path Switch procedure.

NOTE 5: If new UL TEIDs of the S-GW are included, the target MN performs
the MN initiated SN Modification procedure to provide them to the SN.

18\. The target MN initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards
the source MN.

19\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the (source) SN
releases C-plane related resources associated to the UE context towards
the source MN. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue. The SN shall
not release the UE context associated with the target MN if the UE
context kept indication was included in the *SgNB* *Release Request*
message in step 5.

### 10.7.2 MR-DC with 5GC

Inter-MN handover with/without MN initiated SN change is used to
transfer UE context data from a source MN to a target MN while the UE
context at the SN is kept or moved to another SN. During an Inter-Master
Node handover, the target MN decides whether to keep or change the SN
(or release the SN, as described in clause 10.8). Only intra-RAT
Inter-Master node handover with/without SN change is supported (e.g. no
transition from NGEN-DC to NR-DC).

Figure 10.7.2-1: Inter-MN handover with/without MN initiated SN change
procedure

Figure 10.7.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for inter-MN handover
with or without MN initiated SN change:

NOTE 1: For an Inter-Master Node handover without Secondary Node change,
the source SN and the target SN shown in Figure 10.7.2-1 are the same
node.

1\. The source MN starts the handover procedure by initiating the Xn
Handover Preparation procedure including both MCG and SCG configuration.
The source MN includes the source SN UE XnAP ID, SN ID and the UE
context in the source SN in the *Handover Request* message.

NOTE 2: The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification
procedure (to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration
and to allow provision of data forwarding related information before
step 1.

2\. If the target MN decides to keep the UE context in source SN, the
target MN sends *SN Addition Request* to the SN including the SN UE XnAP
ID as a reference to the UE context in the SN that was established by
the source MN. If the target MN decides to change the SN allowing delta
configuration, the target MN sends the *SN Addition Request* to the
target SN including the UE context in the source SN that was established
by the source MN. Otherwise, the target MN may send the *SN Addition
Request* to the target SN including neither the SN UE XnAP ID nor the UE
context in the source SN that was established by the source MN.

3\. The (target) SN replies with *SN Addition Request Acknowledge*. The
(target) SN may include the indication of the full or delta RRC
configuration.

3a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the target MN
provides Xn-U DL TNL address information in the *Xn-U Address
Indication* message.

4\. The target MN includes within the *Handover Request Acknowledge*
message the MN RRC reconfiguration message to be sent to the UE in order
to perform the handover, and may also provide forwarding addresses to
the source MN. If PDU session split is performed in the target side
during handover procedure, more than one data forwarding addresses
corresponding to each node are included in the *Handover Request
Acknowledge* message. The target MN indicates to the source MN that the
UE context in the SN is kept if the target MN and the SN decided to keep
the UE context in the SN in step 2 and step 3.

5a/5b. The source MN sends *SN Release Request* message to the (source)
SN including a Cause indicating MCG mobility. The (source) SN
acknowledges the release request. The source MN indicates to the
(source) SN that the UE context in SN is kept, if it receives the
indication from the target MN. If the indication as the UE context kept
in SN is included, the SN keeps the UE context.

5c. The source MN sends XN-U Address Indication message to the (source)
SN to transfer data forwarding information. More than one data
forwarding addresses may be provided if the PDU session is split in the
target side.

6\. The source MN triggers the UE to perform handover and apply the new
configuration.

7/8. The UE synchronizes to the target MN and replies with *MN RRC
reconfiguration complete* message.

9\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the (target) SN.

NOTE 2a1: The order the UE performs Random Access towards the MN (step
7) and performs the Random Access procedure towards the SN (step 9) is
not defined.

10\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
target MN informs the (target) SN via *SN Reconfiguration Complete*
message.

11a. The source SN sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data Usage Report* message
to the source MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received
from the UE over the NR/E-UTRA radio as described in clause 10.11.2.

NOTE 2a2: The order the source SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage
Report* message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not
defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related
QoS is stopped.

11b. The source MN sends the *Secondary RAT Report* message to AMF to
provide information on the used NR/E-UTRA resource.

12\. For bearers using RLC AM, the source MN sends the *SN Status
Transfer* message to the target MN, including, if needed, SN Status
received from the source SN. The target forwards the SN Status to the
target SN, if needed.

13\. If applicable, data forwarding takes place from the source side. If
the SN is kept, data forwarding may be omitted for SN terminated bearers
or QoS flows kept in the SN.

14-17. The target MN initiates the Path Switch procedure*.* If the
target MN includes multiple DL TEIDs for one PDU session in the *Path
Switch Request* message, multiple UL TEID of the UPF for the PDU session
should be included in the *Path Switch Ack* message in case there is
TEID update in UPF.

NOTE 3: If new UL TEIDs of the UPF for SN are included, the target MN
performs MN initiated SN Modification procedure to provide them to the
SN.

18\. The target MN initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards
the source MN.

19\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message from source MN,
the (source) SN releases C-plane related resources associated to the UE
context towards the source MN. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.
The SN shall not release the UE context associated with the target MN if
the UE contest kept indication was included in the *SN Release Request*
message in step 5.

10.8 Master Node to eNB/gNB Change
----------------------------------

### 10.8.1 EN-DC

The Master Node to eNB Change procedure is used to transfer context data
from a source MN/SN to a target eNB.

Figure 10.8.1-1: Master Node to eNB Change procedure

Figure 10.8.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for the Master Node to
eNB Change procedure:

1\. The source MN starts the MN to eNB Change procedure by initiating
the X2 Handover Preparation procedure, including both MCG and SCG
configuration.

NOTE 1: The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification
procedure (to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration
before step 1.

2\. The target eNB includes the field in HO command which releases SCG
configuration, and may also provide forwarding addresses to the source
MN.

3\. If the allocation of target eNB resources was successful, the MN
initiates the release of the source SN resources towards the source SN
including a Cause indicating MCG mobility. The SN acknowledges the
release request. If data forwarding is needed, the MN provides data
forwarding addresses to the source SN. Reception of the *SgNB Release
Request* message triggers the source SN to stop providing user data to
the UE and, if applicable, to start data forwarding.

NOTE 1a: In case the handover is a conditional handover, step 3a and
step 3b are performed after the source MN receives an indication that
the UE has successfully accessed one of the potential target eNB(s) as
described in step 11a in Figure 10.1.2.1a-1 in TS 36.300 \[2\], i.e.
after step 6 in Figure 10.8.1-1.

NOTE 1b: In case the handover is a conditional handover, the Data
Forwarding Address Indication procedure is executed right after step 2.
This Data Forwarding Address Indication procedure notifies conditional
handover to the source SN, for which it may decide to perform, if
applicable, early data forwarding for SN-terminated bearers, together
with the sending of an *EARLY STATUS TRANSFER* message to the source MN.
Separate Data Forwarding Address Indication procedures may be invoked to
provide different forwarding addresses of the prepared conditional
handovers. In this case, it is up to the source MN and SN
implementations to make sure that the EARLY STATUS TRANSFER message(s)
from the source SN, if any, is forwarded to the right target
destination. The Data Forwarding Address Indication procedure may
further be invoked to indicate to the source SN to stop already
initiated early data forwarding for some SN-terminated bearers if they
are no longer subject to data forwarding due to the modification or
cancellation of the prepared conditional handovers. If applicable, the
normal data forwarding and *SN STATUS TRANSFER* message would follow
from the source SN once it receives the *SgNB Release Request* message
of the step 3a that is performed after step 6.

4\. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. Upon
receiving the new configuration, the UE releases the entire SCG
configuration.

5/6. The UE synchronizes to the target eNB.

7\. For SN terminated bearers using RLC AM, the SN sends the SN Status
Transfer, which the source MN sends then to the target eNB.

8\. If applicable, data forwarding takes place from the source side.

9a. The source SN sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data Usagee Report* message
to the source MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received
from the UE over the NR radio for the related E-RABs.

NOTE 2: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may
send the report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.

9b. The source MN sends the *Secondary RAT Report* message to MME to
provide information on the used NR resource.

10-14. The target eNB initiates the S1 Path Switch procedure.

15\. The target eNB initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards
the source MN.

16\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message, the SN releases
radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue.

NOTE 3: Inter-system HO from E-UTRA with EN-DC configuration to NR or to
E-UTRA connected to 5GC is also supported.

### 10.8.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The MN to ng-eNB/gNB Change procedure is used to transfer UE context
data from a source MN/SN to a target ng-eNB/gNB. Both the cases where
the source MN and the target node belong to the same RAT (i.e. they are
both ng-eNBs or both gNBs) and the cases where the source MN and the
target node belong to different RATs are supported.

NOTE 0: Inter-system HO from ng-eNB/gNB MN to eNB is also supported.

Figure 10.8.2-1: MN to ng-eNB/gNB Change procedure

Figure 10.8.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN to
ng-eNB/gNB Change procedure:

1\. The source MN starts the MN to ng-eNB/gNB Change procedure by
initiating the Xn Handover Preparation procedure, including both MCG and
SCG configuration.

NOTE 1: The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification
procedure (to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration
and to allow provision of data forwarding related information before
step 1.

2\. The target ng-eNB/gNB includes the field in HO command which
releases the SCG configuration, and may also provide forwarding
addresses to the source MN.

3\. If the resource allocation of target ng-eNB/gNB was successful, the
MN initiates the release of the source SN resources towards the source
SN including a Cause indicating MCG mobility. The SN acknowledges the
release request. If data forwarding is needed, the MN provides data
forwarding addresses to the source SN. Reception of the *SN Release
Request* message triggers the source SN to stop providing user data to
the UE and, if applicable, to start data forwarding.

NOTE 1a: In case the handover is a conditional handover, step 3a and
step 3b are performed after the source MN receives an indication that
the UE has successfully accessed one of the potential target gNB(s) as
described in step 8a in Figure 9.2.3.4.2-1 in TS 38.300 \[3\], i.e.
after step 6 in Figure 10.8.2-1.

NOTE 1b: In case the handover is a conditional handover, the step 3c is
executed right after step 2. The *Xn-U Address Indication* message
notifies conditional handover to the source SN, for which it may decide
to perform, if applicable, early data forwarding for SN-terminated
bearers, together with the sending of an *EARLY STATUS TRANSFER* message
to the source MN. Separate Xn-U Address Indication procedures may be
invoked to provide different forwarding addresses of the prepared
conditional handovers. In this case, it is up to the source MN and SN
implementations to make sure that the EARLY STATUS TRANSFER message(s)
from the source SN, if any, is forwarded to the right target
destination. The Xn-U Address Indication procedure may further be
invoked to indicate to the source SN to stop already initiated early
data forwarding for some SN-terminated bearers if they are no longer
subject to data forwarding due to the modification or cancellation of
the prepared conditional handovers. If applicable, the normal data
forwarding and *SN STATUS TRANSFER* message would follow from the source
SN once it receives the *SN Release Request* message of the step 3a that
is performed after step 6. In case the step 3c Xn-U Address Indication
procedure corresponding to the conditional handover that the UE
successfully accessed was rejected by the source SN, the source MN
re-sends it after the step 3b that is performed after step 6.

4\. The MN triggers the UE to perform HO and apply the new
configuration. Upon receiving the new configuration, the UE releases the
entire SCG configuration.

5/6. The UE synchronizes to the target ng-eNB/gNB.

7\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the
SN sends the *SN Status Transfer* message, which the source MN sends
then to the target ng-eNB/gNB.

8\. If applicable, data forwarding takes place from the source side.

9a. The source SN sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data Usage Report* message
to the source MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received
from the UE as described in clause 10.11.2.

NOTE 2: The order the SN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report*
message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may
send the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is
stopped.

9b. The source MN sends the *Secondary RAT Report* message to AMF to
provide information on the used NR/E-UTRA resource.

10-14. The target ng-eNB/gNB initiates the Path Switch procedure*.*

15\. The target ng-eNB/gNB initiates the UE Context Release procedure
towards the source MN.

16\. Upon reception of the *UE Context Release* message from the MN, the
source SN releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the
UE context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.

10.9 eNB/gNB to Master Node change
----------------------------------

### 10.9.1 EN-DC

The eNB to Master Node change procedure is used to transfer context data
from a source eNB to a target MN that adds an SN during the handover.

Figure 10.9.1-1: eNB to Master Node change

Figure 10.9.1-1 shows an example signaling flow for eNB to Master Node
change:

1\. The source eNB starts the handover procedure by initiating the X2
Handover Preparation procedure.

2\. The target MN sends *SgNB Addition Request* to the target SN.

3\. The target SN replies with *SgNB Addition Request Acknowledge*. If
data forwarding is needed, the target SN provides forwarding addresses
to the target MN.

4\. The target MN includes within the *Handover Request Acknowledge*
message a transparent container to be sent to the UE as an E-UTRA RRC
message, including a NR RRC configuration message which also includes
the SCG configuration, to perform the handover, and may also provide
forwarding addresses to the source eNB.

5\. The source eNB triggers the UE to apply the new configuration.

6/7. The UE synchronizes to the target MN and replies with
*RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete* message.

8\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the target SN.

NOTE 0: The order the UE performs Random Access towards the target MN
(step 6) and performs the Random Access procedure towards the target SN
(step 8) is not defined.

9\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
target MN informs the target SN.

10\. For bearers using RLC AM, the source eNB sends the *SN Status
Transfer* message, which the target MN forwards then to the target SN,
if needed.

11\. Data forwarding from the source eNB takes place.

12-15. The target MN initiates the S1 Path Switch procedure.

NOTE 1: If new UL TEIDs of the S-GW are included, the target MN performs
MN initiated SN Modification procedure to provide them to the target SN.

16\. The target MN initiates the *UE Context Release* procedure towards
the source eNB.

NOTE 2: Void.

NOTE 3: Void.

### 10.9.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The ng-eNB/gNB to MN change procedure is used to transfer UE context
data from a source ng-eNB/gNB to a target MN that adds an SN during the
handover. Only the cases where the source node and the target MN belong
to the same RAT (i.e. they are both ng-eNBs or both gNBs) are supported.

Figure 10.9.2-1: ng-eNB/gNB to MN change procedure

Figure 10.9.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for ng-eNB/gNB to MN
change:

1\. The source ng-eNB/gNB starts the handover procedure by initiating
the Xn Handover Preparation procedure.

2\. The target MN sends *SN Addition Request* to the target SN.

3\. The target SN replies with *SN Addition Request Acknowledge*. If
data forwarding is needed, the target SN provides forwarding addresses
to the target MN.

3a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the target MN
provides Xn-U DL TNL address information in the *Xn-U Address
Indication* message.

4\. The target MN includes within the *Handover Request Acknowledge*
message the SN RRC reconfiguration message to be sent to the UE that
includes the SCG configuration to perform the handover, and may also
provide forwarding addresses to the source ng-eNB/gNB.

5\. The source ng-eNB/gNB triggers the UE to perform handover and apply
the new configuration.

6/7. The UE synchronizes to the target MN and replies with *MN RRC
reconfiguration* complete message including the SN RRC reconfiguration
complete message.

8\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the target SN.

NOTE 1: The order the UE performs Random Access towards the target MN
(step 6) and performs the Random Access procedure towards the target SN
(step 8) is not defined.

9\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
target MN informs the target SN via *SN Reconfiguration Complete*
message.

10\. For bearers using RLC AM, the source ng-eNB/gNB sends the *SN
Status Transfer* message, which the target MN forwards then to the
target SN, if needed.

11\. Data forwarding from the source ng-eNB/gNB takes place.

12-15. The target MN initiates the PDU Session Path Switch procedure.

NOTE 2: If new UL TEIDs of the UPF are included, the target MN performs
MN initiated SN Modification procedure to provide them to the target SN.

16\. The target MN initiates the *UE Context Release* procedure towards
the source ng-eNb/gNB.

10.10 RRC Transfer
------------------

### 10.10.1 EN-DC

The RRC Transfer procedure is used to deliver an RRC message,
encapsulated in a PDCP PDU between the MN and the SN (and vice versa) so
that it may be forwarded to/from the UE using split SRB. The RRC
transfer procedure is also used for:

\- providing an NR measurement report, NR failure information, NR UE
assistance information or CPC execution completion from the UE to the SN
via the MN. If UE is IAB-MT, providing NR IAB other information from the
IAB-MT to the SN via the MN;

\- providing MCG failure information from the UE to the MN via the SN
and an RRC reconfiguration, or release, or an inter-RAT handover command
from the MN to the UE via the SN.

Additional details of the RRC transfer procedure are defined in TS
36.423 \[9\].

**Split SRB:**

Figure 10.10.1-1: RRC Transfer procedure for the split SRB (DL
operation)

Figure 10.10.1-1 shows an example signaling flow for the DL RRC Transfer
in case of the split SRB:

1\. The MN, when it decides to use the split SRBs, starts the procedure
by initiating the RRC Transfer procedure. The MN encapsulates the RRC
message in a PDCP-C PDU and ciphers with own keys.

NOTE: The usage of the split SRBs shall be indicated in the Secondary
Node Addition procedure or Modification procedure.

2\. The SN forwards the RRC message to the UE.

3\. The SN may send PDCP delivery acknowledgement of the RRC message
forwarded in step 2.

Figure 10.10.1-2: RRC Transfer procedure for the split SRB (UL
operation)

Figure 10.10.1-2 shows an example signaling flow for the UL RRC Transfer
in case of the split SRB:

1\. When the UE provides response to the RRC message, it sends it to the
SN.

2\. The SN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers
the received PDCP-C PDU with encapsulated RRC message.

**NR measurement report, NR failure information, NR UE assistance
information, NR IAB other information or CPC execution completion:**

Figure 10.10.1-3: RRC Transfer procedure for NR measurement report, NR
failure information**, NR UE assistance information, NR IAB other
information** or CPC execution completion

Figure 10.10.1-3 shows an example signaling flow for RRC Transfer in
case of the forwarding of the NR measurement report, NR failure
information, NR IAB other information from the UE, NR UE assistance
information or CPC execution completion:

1\. When the UE sends a measurement report, NR failure information, NR
UE assistance information, NR IAB other information or CPC execution
completion, it sends it to the MN in a container within
*ULInformationTransferMRDC* message as specified in TS 36.331 \[10\].

2\. The MN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers
the received NR measurement report, NR failure information, NR UE
assistance information, NR IAB other information or CPC execution
completion as an octet string.

**MCG failure information and RRC Reconfiguration / RRC Release /
inter-RAT handover command over SRB3:**

Figure 10.10.1-4: RRC Transfer procedure for MCG failure information

Figure 10.10.1-4 shows an example signaling flow for RRC Transfer in
case of the forwarding of the MCG failure information from the UE:

1\. When the UE sends EUTRA *MCGFailureInformation* message over SRB3,
it sends it to the SN in a container within *ULInformationTransferMRDC*
message as specified in TS 38.331 \[4\].

2\. The SN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers
the received EUTRA *MCGFailureInformation* message as an octet string.

3\. The MN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers
the EUTRA *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message*,* or EUTRA
*RRCConnectionRelease* message*, or MobilityFromEUTRACommand* message as
an octet string.

4\. The SN sends the received EUTRA RRC message to the UE over SRB3 in a
container within *DLInformationTransferMRDC* message, as specified in TS
38.331 \[4\].

### 10.10.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The RRC Transfer procedure is used to deliver an RRC message,
encapsulated in a PDCP PDU between the MN and the SN (and vice versa) so
that it may be forwarded to/from the UE using split SRB. The RRC
transfer procedure is also used for:

\- providing a SN measurement report, failure information report, SN UE
assistance information or CPC execution completion from the UE to the
SN;

\- providing MCG failure information from the UE to the MN via the SN
and an RRC reconfiguration, or release, or an inter-RAT handover command
from the MN to the UE via the SN.

Additional details of the RRC transfer procedure are defined in TS
38.423 \[5\].

**Split SRB:**

Figure 10.10.2-1: RRC Transfer procedure for split SRB (DL operation)

Figure 10.10.2-1 shows an example signaling flow for DL RRC Transfer in
case of the split SRB:

1\. The MN, when it decides to use the split SRBs, starts the procedure
by initiating the RRC Transfer procedure. The MN encapsulates the RRC
message in a PDCP PDU and ciphers with own keys.

NOTE: The usage of the split SRBs shall be indicated in the Secondary
Node Addition procedure or Modification procedure.

2\. The SN forwards the RRC message to the UE.

3\. The SN may send PDCP delivery acknowledgement of the RRC message
forwarded in step 2.

Figure 10.10.2-2: RRC Transfer procedure for split SRB (UL operation)

Figure 10.10.2-2 shows an example signaling flow for UL RRC Transfer in
case of the split SRB:

1\. When the UE provides response to the RRC message, it sends it to the
SN.

2\. The SN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers
the received PDCP PDU with encapsulated RRC message.

**SN measurement report, failure information report, SN UE assistance
information or CPC execution completion:**

Figure 10.10.2-3: RRC Transfer procedure for SN measurement report,
failure information report**, SN UE assistance informatio**n or CPC
execution completion

Figure 10.10.2-3 shows an example signaling flow for RRC Transfer in
case of the forwarding of the SN measurement report, failure information
report, SN UE assistance information or CPC execution completion from
the UE:

1\. When the UE sends an SN measurement report, failure information
report, SN UE assistance information, or CPC execution completion it
sends it to the MN in a container called *ULInformationTransferMRDC*
message as specified in TS 38.331 \[4\].

2\. The MN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers
the received SN measurement report, failure information, SN UE
assistance information or CPC execution completion as an octet string.

**MCG failure information and RRC Reconfiguration / RRC Release /
inter-RAT handover command over SRB3:**

Figure 10.10.2-4: RRC Transfer procedure for MCG failure information

Figure 10.10.2-4 shows an example signaling flow for RRC Transfer in
case of the forwarding of the MCG failure information from the UE:

1\. When the UE sends *MCGFailureInformation* message over SRB3, it
sends it to the SN in a container called *ULInformationTransferMRDC*
message as specified in TS 38.331 \[4\].

2\. The SN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers
the received *MCGFailureInformation* message as an octet string.

3\. The MN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers
the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message*,* or *RRCReconfiguration*
message*,* or *RRCConnectionRelease* message*,* or *RRCRelease*
message*, or MobilityFromNRCommand* message*, or
MobilityFromEUTRACommand* message as an octet string.

4\. The SN sends the received RRC message to the UE in a container
called *DLInformationTransferMRDC* message, as specified in TS 38.331
\[4\].

10.11 Secondary RAT data volume reporting
-----------------------------------------

### 10.11.1 EN-DC

The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is used to report the
data volume of secondary RAT to CN. In EN-DC, if configured, the MN
reports the uplink and downlink data volumes of used NR resources to the
EPC on a per EPS bearer basis as specified in TS 36.300 \[2\]. Periodic
reporting is performed by periodically sending the *Secondary RAT Data
Usage Report* messages to the MME.

The data volume is counted by the node hosting PDCP. Downlink data
volume is counted in bytes of PDCP SDUs successfully delivered to the UE
over NR (for RLC AM) or transmitted to the UE over NR (for RLC UM).
Uplink data volume is counted in bytes of PDCP SDUs received by the node
hosting PDCP over NR. Forwarded packets shall not be counted when PDCP
entity is relocated. When PDCP duplication is activated, packets shall
be counted only once.

Figure 10.11.1-1: Secondary RAT data volume periodic reporting - EN-DC

Figure 10.11.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for secondary RAT data
volume periodic reporting:

1\. If the periodic reporting is configured, then the SN periodically
sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data Usage Report* message to the MN and
includes the data volumes of used NR radio resources for the related
SN-terminated E-RABs.

2\. The MN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to MME to
provide information on the used NR resource.

NOTE: The *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message sent by the MN may
also include secondary RAT report information of MN-terminated bearers.

### 10.11.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is used to report the
data volume of secondary RAT to the 5GC. In MR-DC with 5GC, if
configured, the MN reports the uplink and downlink data volumes of used
secondary RAT resources to the 5GC as specified in TS 23.501 \[11\].
Configuration for reporting of secondary RAT data volume may happen
separately for NR and E-UTRA. Secondary RAT data volume reporting
indicates the secondary RAT type. For each PDU session, it contains data
volumes consumed for the whole PDU Session, or for selected QoS flow, or
both. Periodic reporting is performed by periodically sending the
*Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* messages to the 5GC.

The data volume is counted by the node hosting PDCP. Downlink data
volume is counted in bytes of SDAP SDUs successfully delivered to the UE
(for RLC AM) or transmitted to the UE (for RLC UM). Uplink data volume
is counted in bytes of SDAP SDUs received by the node hosting PDCP.
Forwarded packets shall not be counted when PDCP entity is relocated.
When PDCP duplication is activated, packets shall be counted only once.

Figure 10.11.2-1: Secondary RAT data volume periodic reporting - MR-DC
with 5GC

Figure 10.11.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for secondary RAT data
volume periodic reporting:

1\. For SN terminated bearers, the SN sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data
Usage Report* message to the MN and includes the data volumes of used
secondary RAT resources for PDU Sessions or selected QoS flows or both
mapped to SN-terminated bearers. If periodic reporting is configured,
then the SN periodically sends the *Secondary RAT* *Data Usage Report*
message to the MN and includes the data volumes of used radio resources.

2\. The MN sends the *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message to the
5GC to provide information on the used radio resources.

NOTE: The *Secondary RAT Data Usage Report* message sent by the MN may
also include secondary RAT data volumes of used secondary RAT resources
for MN terminated bearers.

10.12 Activity Notification
---------------------------

### 10.12.1 EN-DC

The Activity Notification function is used to report user plane activity
within SN resources. It can either report inactivity or resumption of
activity after inactivity was reported. In EN-DC the Activity Reporting
is provided from the SN only. The MN may take further actions.

**EN-DC Activity Notification**

Figure 10.12.1-1: Support of Activity Notification in EN-DC

Support of Activity Notification in EN-DC is used to keep the MN
informed about user traffic activity in resources owned by the SN. The
MN may take appropriate action upon receiving such notification.

1\. The SN informs the MN about user data inactivity of resources owned
by the SN.

2\. The MN decides to keep SN resources.

3\. After a while the SN reports resumption of user plane activity.

**EN-DC with suspended RRC connection -- SCG configuration released in
SN**

The Activity Notification function may be used to enable EN-DC with
suspended RRC connected operation. The MN node may decide, after
inactivity is reported from the SN and also MN resources show no
activity, to send the UE to suspended RRC connection. Resumption to
RRC\_CONNECTED may take place after activity is reported from the SN for
SN terminated bearers.

Figure 10.12.1-2: Support of Activity Notification in EN-DC with
suspended RRC connection -- SCG configuration released in SN

Figure 10.12.1-2 shows how Activity Notification function interacts with
E-UTRAN functions for suspended RRC connection and SgNB Modification
procedures in order to keep the higher layer EN-DC E-UTRAN resources
established for UEs in suspended RRC connection, including S1 and X2
interface C-plane, U-plane and bearer contexts established while lower
layer MCG and SCG resources are released. E-UTRAN memorises the cell
group configuration for MCG in order to apply delta signalling at
resume, as specified in TS 36.331 \[4\]. After the UE has transited
successfully back to RRC\_CONNECTED, lower layer SCG resources are
established afterwards by means of RRC Connection Reconfiguration.

1\. The SN notifies the MN about user data inactivity for SN terminated
bearers.

2\. The MN decides to send the UE to suspended RRC connection.

3/4. The MN triggers the MN initiated SgNB Modification procedure,
requesting the SN to release lower layers.

5\. The UE is sent to suspended RRC connection.

6-8. After a period of suspended RRC connection, upon activity
notification from the SN, the UE returns to RRC\_CONNECTED.

8bis. MN decides whether to reactivate the SN terminated bearers. If
(e.g. due to UE mobility), MN decides not to reactivate the SN
terminated bearers, it initiates the MN initiated SN release procedure
and the procedure ends.

9/10. The MN triggers the MN initiated SgNB Modification procedure to
re-establish lower layers. The SN provides configuration data within an
SN RRC configuration message.

11-14. The RRC Connection Reconfiguration procedure commences.

**EN-DC with suspended RRC connection - SCG configuration suspended in
SN**

The Activity Notification function may be used to enable EN-DC with
suspended RRC connection operation. The MN node may decide, after
inactivity is reported from the SN and also MN resources show no
activity, to send the UE to suspended RRC connection, while keeping the
SCG configuration. Resumption to RRC\_CONNECTED may take place after
activity is reported from the SN for SN terminated bearers.

Figure 10.12.1-3: Support of Activity Notification in EN-DC with
suspended RRC connection - SCG configuration suspended in SN

Figure 10.12.1-3 shows how Activity Notification function interacts with
functions for suspended RRC connection and SgNB Modification procedures
in order to keep the full EN-DC resources established for UEs in
suspended RRC connection. When the UE transits successfully back to
RRC\_CONNECTED, lower layer MCG and SCG configurations are restored or
reconfigured by means of RRC Connection Resume.

1\. The SN notifies the MN about user data inactivity for SN terminated
bearers.

2\. The MN decides to send the UE to suspended RRC connection.

3/4. The MN triggers the MN initiated SN Modification procedure,
requesting the SN to suspend lower layers.

5\. The UE is sent to suspended RRC connection.

6-7. After a period of suspended RRC connection, the MN receives
activity notification from the SN.

8\. The MN decides whether to reactivate the SN terminated bearers. If
(e.g. due to UE mobility), the MN decides not to reactivate the SN
terminated bearers, it initiates the MN initiated SN release procedure,
rather than the MN initiated SN modification procedure in steps 9/10. If
the MN decides to return the UE to RRC\_CONNECTED, the network triggered
state transition from suspended RRC connection to RRC\_CONNECTED
commences.

9/10. The MN triggers the MN initiated SN Modification procedure to
resume the SCG lower layers. If the SCG configuration needs to be
updated, the SN provides the configuration data within an SN RRC
configuration message.

11/12. The UE is instructed to resume both the MCG and the SCG. If the
SCG configuration is to be updated, the new configuration is provided in
the *RRCConnectionResume* message.

13\. The MN informs the SN that the UE has completed the reconfiguration
procedure successfully, via the *SgNB Reconfiguration Complete* message,
including the SN RRC response message, if received from the UE.

14\. The UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the SN.

### 10.12.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The Activity Notification function is used to report user plane activity
within SN resources or to report a RAN Paging Failure event to the SN.
It can either report inactivity or resumption of activity after
inactivity was reported. In MR-DC with 5GC the Activity Reporting is
provided from the SN only. The MN may take further actions. RAN Paging
Failure Reporting is provided from the MN only.

**MR-DC with 5GC Activity Notification**

Figure 10.12.2-1: Support of Activity Notification in MR-DC with 5GC

1\. The SN notifies the MN about user data inactivity.

2\. The MN decides further actions that impact SN resources (e.g. send
UE to RRC\_INACTIVE, bearer reconfiguration). In the case shown, MN
takes no action.

3\. The SN notifies the MN that the (UE or PDU Session or QoS flow) is
no longer inactive.

**MR-DC with 5GC with RRC\_INACTIVE -- SCG configuration released in
SN**

The Activity Notification function may be used to enable MR-DC with 5GC
with RRC\_INACTIVE operation. The MN node may decide, after inactivity
is reported from the SN and also MN resources show no activity, to send
the UE to RRC\_INACTIVE. Resumption to RRC\_CONNECTED may take place
after activity is reported from the SN for SN terminated bearers.

Figure 10.12.2-2: Support of Activity Notification in MR-DC with 5GC
with RRC\_Inactive -- SCG configuration released in SN

Figure 10.12.2-2 shows how Activity Notification function interacts with
NG-RAN functions for RRC\_INACTIVE and SN Modification procedures in
order to keep the higher layer MR-DC NG-RAN resources established for
UEs in RRC\_INACTIVE, including NG and Xn interface C-plane, U-plane and
bearer contexts established while lower layer MCG and SCG resources are
released. NG-RAN memorises the cell group configuration for MCG in order
to apply delta signalling at resume, as specified in TS 38.331 \[4\].
After the UE has transited successfully back to RRC\_CONNECTED, lower
layer SCG resources are established afterwards by means of RRC
Connection Reconfiguration.

1\. The SN notifies the MN about user data inactivity for SN terminated
bearers.

2\. The MN decides to send the UE to RRC\_INACTIVE.

3/4. The MN triggers the MN initiated SN Modification procedure,
requesting the SN to release lower layers.

5\. The UE is sent to RRC\_INACTIVE.

6-8. After a period of inactivity, upon activity notification from the
SN, the UE returns to RRC\_CONNECTED.

8bis. MN decides whether to reactivate the SN terminated bearers. If
(e.g. due to UE mobility), MN decides not to reactivate the SN
terminated bearers, it initiates the MN initiated SN release procedure
and the procedure ends.

9/10. The MN triggers the MN initiated SN Modification procedure to
re-establish lower layers. The SN provides configuration data within an
*SN RRC reconfiguration* message.

11-14. The RRC Connection Reconfiguration procedure commences.

**MR-DC with 5GC with RRC\_INACTIVE - SCG configuration suspended in
SN**

The Activity Notification function may be used to enable MR-DC with 5GC
with RRC\_INACTIVE operation. The MN node may decide, after inactivity
is reported from the SN and also MN resources show no activity, to send
the UE to RRC\_INACTIVE, while keeping the SCG configuration. Resumption
to RRC\_CONNECTED may take place after activity is reported from the SN
for SN terminated bearers.

Figure 10.12.2-3: Support of Activity Notification in MR-DC with 5GC
with RRC\_Inactive - SCG configuration suspended in SN

Figure 10.12.2-3 shows how Activity Notification function interacts with
NG-RAN functions for RRC\_INACTIVE and SN Modification procedures in
order to keep the full MR-DC NG-RAN resources established for UEs in
RRC\_INACTIVE. When the UE transits successfully back to RRC\_CONNECTED,
lower layer MCG and SCG configurations are restored or reconfigured by
means of RRC (Connection) Resume.

1\. The SN notifies the MN about user data inactivity for SN terminated
bearers.

2\. The MN decides to send the UE to RRC\_INACTIVE.

3/4. The MN triggers the MN initiated SN Modification procedure,
requesting the SN to suspend lower layers.

5\. The UE is sent to RRC\_INACTIVE.

6-7. After a period of inactivity, the MN receives activity notification
from the SN.

8\. The MN decides whether to reactivate the SN terminated bearers. If
(e.g. due to UE mobility), the MN decides not to reactivate the SN
terminated bearers, it initiates the MN initiated SN release procedure,
rather than the MN initiated SN modification procedure in steps 9/10. If
the MN decides to return the UE to RRC\_CONNECTED, the network triggered
state transition from RRC\_INACTIVE to RRC\_CONNECTED commences as
described in clause 9.2.2.4.2 in TS 38.300 \[3\].

9/10. The MN triggers the MN initiated SN Modification procedure to
resume the SCG lower layers. If the SCG configuration needs to be
updated, the SN provides the configuration data within an *SN RRC
reconfiguration* message.

11/12. The UE is instructed to resume both the MCG and the SCG. If the
SCG configuration is to be updated, the new configuration is provided in
the *RRC(Connection)Resume* message.

13\. The MN informs the SN that the UE has completed the reconfiguration
procedure successfully, via the *SN Reconfiguration Complete* message,
including the SN RRC response message, if received from the UE.

14\. The UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the SN.

10.13 Notification Control Indication
-------------------------------------

### 10.13.1 EN-DC

Notification Control Indication procedure is not supported in EN-DC.

### 10.13.2 MR-DC with 5GC

The Notification Control Indication procedure may be initiated either by
the MN or by the SN and is used to indicate that GFBR for one or several
QoS flows cannot be fulfilled any more or can be fulfilled again by the
reporting node.

Figure 10.13.2-1: Notification Control Indication procedure

Figure 10.13.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for the Notification
Control Indication procedure.

1\. The MN may, for an SN terminated bearer, indicate, that the GFBR
requested from the MN cannot be fulfilled anymore.\
In case the SN terminated bearer is configured as a split bearer, the SN
may decide to increase the share provided by the SN or it may decide to
notify the MN that resources requested for the SN terminated bearer
cannot fulfill the GFBR any more.

2\. Continuing the example message flow from step 1, the SN informs the
MN that the GFBR for an SN terminated bearer cannot be fulfilled any
more.

3\. The MN decides to inform the 5GC that NG-RAN cannot fulfill the GFBR
for a GBR QoS flow any more.

10.14 PDU Session Split at UPF
------------------------------

### 10.14.1 PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource setup

When a new PDU session needs to be established, the 5GC may provide two
UL TEID addresses during PDU Session Resource Setup in order to allow
for PDU session split. The MN may perform the SN Addition or the
MN-initiated SN Modification procedure. If the MN decides to split the
PDU session, the MN provides two DL TEID addresses and also the QoS
flows associated with each tunnel.

Figure 10.14.1-1: PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource
setup

1\. The 5GC provides two UL TEID addresses during PDU Session Resource
Setup, to be applied as the first UL tunnel on the NG-U interface and
the additional NG-U tunnel in case the MN decides to split the PDU
session.

2\. The MN decides to setup two tunnels. The MN uses the SN Addition
procedure (as described in 10.2.2) or the MN-initiated SN Modification
procedure (as described in 10.3.2) up to step 6.

3\. The MN provides a DL TEID address to be applied as the first and an
additional DL tunnel address on the NG-U interface. The MN also provides
which QoS flows are associated with which tunnel.

### 10.14.2 PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource modify (5GC initiated)

The 5GC may provide an additional UL TEID address during PDU Session
Resource Modify in order to allow the MN to split the PDU session. The
MN may perform the SN Addition or the MN-initiated SN Modification
procedure. If the MN decides to split the PDU session, the MN provides a
DL TEID address to be applied as the additional DL tunnel address and
the QoS flows associated with that tunnel.

Figure 10.14.2-1: PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource
modify

1\. The 5GC provides an additional UL TEID address during PDU Session
Resource Modify, to be applied as the additional NG-U tunnel in case the
MN decides to split the PDU session.

2\. The MN decides to setup two tunnels. If the new tunnel is to be
setup at the SN, the MN uses the SN Addition procedure (as described in
10.2.2) or the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (as described in
10.3.2) up to step 6, or up to step 8 if a QoS flow is moved to the SN
and data forwarding applies.

3\. The MN provides a DL TEID address to be applied as the additional DL
tunnel address on the NG-U interface and the QoS flows associated with
that tunnel.

### 10.14.3 PDU Session Split at UPF (RAN initiated QoS flows offloading from MN to SN)

When some QoS flows are offloaded from the MN to the SN, the MN may
decide to split the PDU session served by the MN into more than one NG-U
tunnels. The MN sends the *SN Addition/Modification Request* message
including UPF UL TEID address used at the MN. Later on, if the MN
receives a new UL TEID in the *PDU Session Resource Modify Confirm*
message, the MN may provide the new UL TEID to the SN.

Figure 10.14.3-1: PDU Session Split at UPF during RAN initiated PDU
session resource modify (QoS flows offloading from MN to SN)

1-2. If the MN decides to split a PDU session, it uses the SN Addition
procedure or the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure, including
current UPF UL NG-U tunnel used at the MN. If in-order delivery is
required for some QoS flows, an UL forwarding tunnel may be setup for
the PDU session at this stage.

NOTE 1: In case the MN offloads some QoS flows to the SN within a PDU
session already split between the MN and the SN, the MN initiated SN
Modification procedure is used.

3-6d. If in-order delivery is required, the SN buffers the first packets
received from the UE for a certain QoS flow until it receives an GTP-U
end marker packet over the UL forwarding tunnel indicating that the MN
has delivered all UL packets from the source side to UPF for that QoS
flow. Then the SN starts delivering UL packets to UPF for that QoS flow
using the UPF UL TEID address used at the MN received at step 1.

7-8. The MN uses the *PDU Session Resource Modify Indication* message to
inform 5GC that the PDU session is split into two tunnels and indicate
which QoS flows are associated with which DL tunnel. The 5GC triggers
the sending of DL End Marker packets without QFI tag at step 7a and
confirms with the *PDU Session Resource Modify Confirm* message and
allocates corresponding uplink tunnels.

After receiving the End Marker packet(s) from UPF at step 7a, the MN
determines that the End Marker packets only work on the offloaded QoS
flows, and may stop delivering and discard DL packets of the offloaded
QoS flows, and the MN shall continue transmiting DL packets for the not
offloaded QoS flows, if any.

7a./7b. After receiving the DL end marker from 5GC at step 7a, the MN
may generate at step 7b DL End Marker packets without QFI tag towards
the SN.

9-10. If the MN receives a new UL TEID in the *PDU Session Resource
Modify Confirm* message for itself, the MN will use it to deliver UL
packets to UPF. If the MN receives a new UL TEID for the SN, then the
MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (i.e., step 9 and step 10) is
used to provide the new UL TEID to the SN and then the SN switches to
use the new UL TEID to deliver UL packets.

10.14.4 PDU Session Split at UPF (RAN initiates QoS flows offloading
from SN to MN)

When some QoS flows are offloaded from the SN to the MN, the MN may
decide to split the PDU session served by the SN into more than one NG-U
tunnels. If the MN requests to offload, the MN sends the *SN
Modification Request* message to the SN. In case the SN requests to
offload, the SN sends the *SN Modification Required* message to the MN.

Figure 10.14.4-1: PDU Session Split at UPF during RAN initiated PDU
session resource modify (QoS flows offloading from SN to MN)

1a-1c. When the MN requests to offload some QoS flows from the SN to the
MN for a PDU session, it sends the *SN Modification Request* message. If
in-order delivery is required for some of the QoS flows, an UL
forwarding tunnel may be setup for the PDU session at this stage and the
MN provides the UL forwarding tunnel address information in the *Xn-U
Address Indication* message.

2a-2b. When the SN requests to offload some QoS flows to the MN for a
PDU session, the SN sends the *SN Modification Required* message. If
in-order delivery is required for some of the QoS flows, an UL
forwarding tunnel may be setup for the PDU session at this stage and the
MN provides the UL forwarding tunnel address information in the *SN
Modification Confirm* message.

3-6d. If in-order delivery is required, the MN buffers the first packets
received from the UE for a certain QoS flow until it receives an GTP-U
end marker packet over the UL forwarding tunnel indicating that the SN
has delivered all UL packets from the source side to UPF for that QoS
flow.

7-8. The MN uses the *PDU Session Resource Modify Indication* message to
inform 5GC that the PDU session is split into two tunnels and indicate
which QoS flows are associated with which DL tunnel. The 5GC triggers
the sending of DL End Marker packets without QFI tag at step 7a and
confirms with the *PDU Session Resource Modify Confirm* message and
allocates corresponding uplink tunnels.

After receiving the End Marker packet(s) from UPF at step 7a, the SN
determines that the End Marker packets only work on the offloaded QoS
flows, and may stop delivering and discard DL packets of the offloaded
QoS flows, and the SN shall continue transmiting DL packets for the not
offloaded QoS flows, if any.

7a./7b. After receiving the DL end marker from 5GC at step 7a, the SN
may generate at step 7b DL End Marker packets without QFI tag towards
the MN.

9-10. If the MN receives a new UL TEID in the *PDU Session Resource
Modify Confirm* message for itself, the MN will use it to deliver UL
packets to UPF. If the MN receives a new UL TEID for the SN, then the
MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (i.e., the step 9 and step 10) is
used to provide the new UL TEID to the SN and then the SN switches to
use the new UL TEID to deliver UL packets.

10.15 F1-C Traffic Transfer
---------------------------

In EN-DC, the F1-C Traffic Transfer message is sent by the MN to the SN
or by the SN to MN to transfer the F1-C traffic to and from an IAB-node.

Figure 10.15-1: F1-C Traffic Transfer procedure in EN-DC

1\. When the IAB-MT sends a F1-AP message encapsulated in SCTP/IP or
F1-C related (SCTP/)IP packet, it sends it to the MN in a container
within *ULInformationTransfer* message as specified in TS 36.331 \[10\].

2\. The MN initiates the F1-C Traffic Transfer procedure, in which it
transfers the received F1-AP message encapsulated in (SCTP/)IP or F1-C
related (SCTP/)IP packet as an octet string.

3\. When the SN sends a F1-AP message encapsulated in SCTP/IP or F1-C
related (SCTP/)IP packet, it sends it to the MN as an octet string
through the F1-C Traffic Transfer procedure.

4\. The MN sends the received F1-AP message encapsulated in SCTP/IP or
F1-C related (SCTP/)IP packet to the IAB-MT in a container within
*DLInformationTransfer* message as specified in TS 36.331 \[10\].

10.16 Support of inter-system handover involving EN-DC or MR-DC with 5GC
------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 10.16.1 General

Inter-system handover is specified in TS 23.501 \[11\] and TS 23.502
\[20\]. Data forwarding for inter-system handover is specified in TS
38.300 \[3\] and clause 8.4.

Inter-system Inter-Master node handover with/without SN change is not
supported in this version of the protocol (e.g. no transition from EN-DC
to NGEN-DC or NR-DC).

Inter-system HO from NR to E-UTRA with EN-DC configuration is supported
in this version of the specification. N26 based inter-system HO will be
executed between source RAN and gNB.

Inter-system HO from E-UTRA connected to 5GC to E-UTRA with EN-DC
configuration is not supported. Inter-system HO from E-UTRA with EPC to
MR-DC with 5GC is not supported.

Inter-system handover with source gNB and the target en-gNB or the
source en-gNB and the target gNB being realised within the same network
entity is supported in this version of the specification as described in
clause 10.16.2 and clause 10.16.3.

### 10.16.2 Inter-system handover from EPS to 5GS with the Secondary Node used as target

Inter-system handover from EPS to 5GS with the Secondary Node used as
target refers to a deployment scenario where the source en-gNB and the
target gNB are realised within the same network entity.

Figure 10.16.2-1: Inter-system handover from EPS to 5GS with the
Secondary Node used as target

\- Step 1: The (source) eNB, performing EN-DC with the (source) en-gNB
triggers handover preparation including the SgNB UE X2AP ID within the
Source NG-RAN to Target NG-RAN Transparent Container.

\- Step 2: The target gNB infers from the received SgNB UE X2AP ID in
the *Handover Request* message that direct data forwarding can be
performed in a node-internal way.

\- Step 3: DL UP data is forwarded in a node-internal way for the SN
terminated bearers.

\- Step 4: After the end marker has arrived from the SGW, the (target)
gNB processes UP data from the UPF.

### 10.16.3 Inter-system handover from 5GS to EPS with the Source Node used as target Secondary Node

Inter-system handover from 5GS to EPS with the Source Node used as
target Secondary Node refers to a deployment scenario where the source
gNB and the target en-gNB are realised within the same network entity.

Figure 10.16.3-1: Inter-system handover from 5GS to EPS with the Source
Node used as target Secondary Node

1\. The (source) gNB triggers handover preparation phase including in
the Source eNB to Target eNB Transparent Container the Source NG-RAN
node ID and the RAN UE NGAP ID.

2\. The target eNB receives the Source NG-RAN node ID and the RAN UE
NGAP ID in the Source eNB to Target eNB Transparent Container.

3.-4. The X2AP SgNB Addition procedure is performed towards the (target)
en-gNB indicated in the Source NG-RAN node ID received in step 2. The
eNB includes the RAN UE NGAP ID received in step 2 in the X2 *SgNB
Addition Request* message.

5.-8. Handover proceeds.

9\. DL UP data is forwarded in a node-internal way for the SN terminated
bearers.

11 Service related aspects
==========================

11.1 Roaming and Access Restrictions
------------------------------------

The principles for conveying roaming and access restriction info for
EN-DC are described in TS 36.300 \[2\].

For MR-DC with 5GC, SCG (re)selection at the SN is based on roaming and
access restriction information in SN. If roaming and access restriction
information is not available at the SN, the SN shall consider that there
is no restriction for SCG (re)selection. Therefore, the MN needs to
convey the latest roaming and access restriction information as received
from the Core Network or another NG-RAN node to the SN via XnAP
messages.

11.2 Support of Network Sharing
-------------------------------

E-UTRAN and NG-RAN aspects of network sharing are specified in TS 36.300
\[2\] and TS 38.300 \[3\].

11.3 ARPI/SPID Handling from MN
-------------------------------

Usage of the Subscriber Profile ID for RAT/Frequency Priority (SPID) and
the Additional RRM Policy Index (ARPI) in E-UTRAN is specified in TS
36.300 \[2\] and applies to EN-DC. Therefore, the MN needs to convey the
up-to-date ARPI/SPID information to the SN via X2AP messages.

12 X2/Xn Interface related aspects
==================================

Stage 2 specification for X2-C procedures for EN-DC is contained in TS
36.300 \[2\].

Xn-C procedures for MR-DC with 5GC are specified in TS 38.423 \[5\].

X2-U procedures for EN-DC and Xn-U procedures for MR-DC with 5GC are
specified in TS 38.425 \[6\].

13 Other aspects
================

13.1 Interference avoidance for in-device coexistence
-----------------------------------------------------

In-Device Coexistence (IDC) solution as described in TS 36.300 \[2\] is
extended to address EN-DC operation. Only FDM solution, where the list
of NR carriers suffering from IDC problems is signalled in IDC
indication, is supported in this version of the specifications. The
requirement on RRM/RLM/CSI measurements in different phases of IDC
interference defined in TS 36.300 \[2\] is applicable except that for NR
serving cell, the requirements in TS 38.133 \[8\] and TS 38.101-1
\[12\], TS 38.101-2 \[13\], TS 38.101-3 \[14\] apply.

13.2 Sidelink
-------------

NR Sidelink Communication and V2X Sidelink Communication cannot be
configured in MR-DC in this release.

########  Annex A (informative): Layer 2 handling for bearer type change

This clause provides for information an overview on L2 handling for
bearer type change in MR-DC, with and without a security key change due
to a change of the termination point.

Table A-1: L2 handling for bearer type change with and without a
security key change due to a change of the termination point.

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Bearer  | MCG     | Split   | SCG     |         |         |         |
| type    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| change  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| from    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| row\    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to col  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         | no      | change  | no      | change  | no      | change  |
|         | change  | of      | change  | of      | change  | of      |
|         | of      | term    | of      | term    | of      | term    |
|         | term    | ination | term    | ination | term    | ination |
|         | ination | point   | ination | point   | ination | point   |
|         | point   |         | point   |         | point   |         |
|         |         | (key    |         | (key    |         | (key    |
|         | (no key | change) | (no key | change) | (no key | change) |
|         | change) |         | change) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | change) |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| MCG     | N/A     | PDCP:   | PDCP:   | PDCP:   | PDCP:   | PDCP:   |
|         |         |         | Reco    |         |         |         |
|         |         | Re-es   | nfigure | Re-es   | R       | Re-es   |
|         |         | tablish |         | tablish | ecovery | tablish |
|         |         |         | MCG     |         |         |         |
|         |         | MCG     | RLC: No | MCG     | MCG     | MCG     |
|         |         | RLC:    | action  | RLC:    | RLC:    | RLC:    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | See     | MCG     | See     | See     | See     |
|         |         | Note 1  | MAC: No | Note 1  | Note 3  | Note 3  |
|         |         |         | action  |         |         |         |
|         |         | MCG     |         | MCG     | MCG     | MCG     |
|         |         | MAC:    | SCG     | MAC:    | MAC:    | MAC:    |
|         |         |         | RLC:    |         |         |         |
|         |         | See     | Es      | See     | Reco    | Reco    |
|         |         | Note 1  | tablish | Note 1  | nfigure | nfigure |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | SCG     | SCG     | SCG     | SCG     | SCG     |
|         |         | RLC:    | MAC:    | RLC:    | RLC:    | RLC:    |
|         |         |         | Reco    |         |         |         |
|         |         | No      | nfigure | Es      | Es      | Es      |
|         |         | action  |         | tablish | tablish | tablish |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | SCG     |         | SCG     | SCG     | SCG     |
|         |         | MAC:    |         | MAC:    | MAC:    | MAC:    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | No      |         | Reco    | Reco    | Reco    |
|         |         | action  |         | nfigure | nfigure | nfigure |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Split   | PDCP:   | PDCP:\  | N/A     | PDCP:   | PDCP:   | PDCP:   |
|         |         | Re-es   |         |         | R       |         |
|         | R       | tablish |         | Re-es   | ecovery | Re-es   |
|         | ecovery |         |         | tablish |         | tablish |
|         |         | MCG     |         |         | MCG     |         |
|         | MCG     | RLC:    |         | MCG     | RLC:    | MCG     |
|         | RLC:    | See     |         | RLC:    |         | RLC:    |
|         |         | Note 1  |         |         | See     |         |
|         | No      |         |         | See     | Note 3  | See     |
|         | action  | MCG     |         | Note 1  |         | Note 3  |
|         |         | MAC:    |         |         | MCG     |         |
|         | MCG     | See     |         | MCG     | MAC:    | MCG     |
|         | MAC:    | Note 1  |         | MAC:    |         | MAC:    |
|         |         |         |         |         | Reco    |         |
|         | No      | SCG     |         | See     | nfigure | Reco    |
|         | action  | RLC:    |         | Note 1  |         | nfigure |
|         |         | See     |         |         | SCG     |         |
|         | SCG     | Note 4  |         | SCG     | RLC:\   | SCG     |
|         | RLC:    |         |         | RLC:\   | No      | RLC:\   |
|         |         | SCG     |         | See     | action  | See     |
|         | See     | MAC:    |         | Note 1  |         | Note 1  |
|         | Note 4  | Reco    |         |         | SCG     |         |
|         |         | nfigure |         | SCG     | MAC:\   | SCG     |
|         | SCG     |         |         | MAC:\   | No      | MAC:\   |
|         | MAC:    |         |         | See     | action  | See     |
|         |         |         |         | Note 1  |         | Note 1  |
|         | Reco    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | nfigure |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| SCG     | PDCP:   | PDCP:   | PDCP:   | PDCP:   | N/A     | PDCP:   |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | R       | Re-es   | Reco    | Re-es   |         | Re-es   |
|         | ecovery | tablish | nfigure | tablish |         | tablish |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | MCG     | MCG     | MCG     | MCG     |         | MCG     |
|         | RLC:    | RLC:    | RLC:    | RLC:    |         | RLC:    |
|         | Es      |         | Es      |         |         |         |
|         | tablish | Es      | tablish | Es      |         | No      |
|         |         | tablish |         | tablish |         | action  |
|         | MCG     |         | MCG     |         |         |         |
|         | MAC:    | MCG     | MAC:    | MCG     |         | MCG     |
|         | Reco    | MAC:    | Reco    | MAC:    |         | MAC:    |
|         | nfigure |         | nfigure |         |         |         |
|         |         | Reco    |         | Reco    |         | No      |
|         | SCG     | nfigure | SCG     | nfigure |         | action  |
|         | RLC:    |         | RLC: No |         |         |         |
|         | See     | SCG     | action  | SCG     |         | SCG     |
|         | Note 4  | RLC:    |         | RLC:    |         | RLC:    |
|         |         |         | SCG     |         |         |         |
|         | SCG     | See     | MAC: No | See     |         | See     |
|         | MAC:    | Note 4  | action  | Note 1  |         | Note 1  |
|         | Reco    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | nfigure | SCG     |         | SCG     |         | SCG     |
|         |         | MAC:    |         | MAC:\   |         | MAC:    |
|         |         |         |         | See     |         |         |
|         |         | Reco    |         | Note 1  |         | See     |
|         |         | nfigure |         |         |         | Note 1  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

NOTE 1: For EN-DC and NGEN-DC MCG, NE-DC SCG: the MAC/RLC behaviour
depends on the solution selected by the network. It can be PCell
handover (for EN-DC and NGEN-DC) or PSCell change (for NE-DC), which
triggers MAC reset and RLC re-establishment. Alternatively, the logical
channel identity can be changed, either via RLC bearer release and add
for the same DRB (including RLC re-establishment), or via
reconfiguration of the RLC bearer with RLC-re-establishment.

For EN-DC and NGEN-DC SCG, NE-DC MCG, NR-DC MCG and SCG: the MAC/RLC
behaviour depends on the solution selected by the network. It can be
reconfiguration with sync, with MAC reset and RLC re-establishment.
Alternatively, the logical channel identity can be changed via RLC
bearer release and add.

NOTE 2: Void

NOTE 3: For EN-DC and NGEN-DC: Re-establishment and release. For NE-DC
and NR-DC: Release.

NOTE 4: For NE-DC: Re-establishment and release. For EN-DC, NGEN-DC and
NR-DC: Release.

######## 

######## Annex B (informative): Supported MR-DC Handover Scenarios

Table B-1 summarizes the supported handover scenarios involving MR-DC
configurations.

Table B-1: Supported MR-DC handover scenarios.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **To (column)\        **E-UTRA with EPC**   **E-UTRA with 5GC**   **NR**   **GERAN or UTRAN**   **EN-DC**   **NGEN-DC**   **NE-DC**   **NR-DC**
  \                                                                                                                                     
  HO from (row)**                                                                                                                       
  --------------------- --------------------- --------------------- -------- -------------------- ----------- ------------- ----------- -----------
  **E-UTRA with EPC**   YES                   YES                   YES      YES                  YES         NO            NO          NO

  **E-UTRA with 5GC**   YES                   YES                   YES      NO                   NO          YES           NO          NO

  **NR**                YES                   YES                   YES      NOTE 1               YES         NO            YES         YES

  **GERAN or UTRAN**    YES                   NO                    NO       YES                  NO          NO            NO          NO

  **EN-DC**             YES                   YES                   YES      YES                  YES         NO            NO          NO

  **NGEN-DC**           YES                   YES                   YES      NO                   NO          YES           NO          NO

  **NE-DC**             YES                   YES                   YES      NOTE 1               NO          NO            YES         NO

  **NR-DC**             YES                   YES                   YES      NOTE 1               NO          NO            NO          YES
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 1: Only SRVCC handover of IMS voice bearer to UTRAN is supported.

NOTE 2: All handover scenarios according to Table B-1 that have a DC
option in the column \"from\" are supported during fast MCG failure
recovery.

NOTE 3: Only intra-RAT conditional handover is supported except for
E-UTRA with 5GC scenario.

NOTE 4: DAPS handover is only supported from E-UTRA with EPC to E-UTRA
with EPC and from NR to NR.

######## 

######## Annex C (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | *     | **T   | *     | **    | **    | **Su  | **New |
| ate** | *Meet | doc** | *CR** | Rev** | Cat** | bject | vers  |
|       | ing** |       |       |       |       | /Comm | ion** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | Draft | 0.0.1 |
| 17.04 | AN2\# | 03828 |       |       |       | Ske   |       |
|       | 97bis |       |       |       |       | leton |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | End   | 0.0.2 |
| 17.04 | AN2\# | 03923 |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       | 97bis |       |       |       |       | Ske   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | leton |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | In    | 0.1.0 |
| 17.05 | 2\#98 | 04898 |       |       |       | itial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ver   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sion, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inclu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.912 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN2\# |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 97bis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ystem |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | asure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- UE |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | capab |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bined |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN/SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mes   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sages |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | split |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN/MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | QoS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Sec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN2  | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | Agree | 0.1.1 |
| 17.06 | NR    | 06418 |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       | A     |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       | dHoc2 |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3\#96 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ne    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | twork |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inter |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | faces |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | itial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- UP |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2\#98 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- UE |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | capab |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Fu    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rther |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN2  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN2  | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | End   | 0.2.0 |
| 17.06 | NR    | 07467 |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       | A     |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       | dHoc2 |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN2  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AH2,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | also  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inclu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | itial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | init  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | Agree | 0.2.1 |
| 17.08 | 2\#99 | 08080 |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AH2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forwa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | split |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Path  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | U     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN2  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AH2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | har   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moniz |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- UE |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | capab |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (SCG  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB)  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Split |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Sec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Add   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | init  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Modif |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | icati |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on/Re |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mis   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cella |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | End   | 0.3.0 |
| 17.08 | 2\#99 | 09831 |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2\#99 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | Agree | 0.4.0 |
| 17.08 | 2\#99 | 09939 |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2\#99 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | har   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moniz |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | esult |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | exc   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Sec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Emb   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edded |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tran  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Other |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | end   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TPs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mis   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cella |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (in   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3187, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3380, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3381, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3384, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3386, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 73388 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3-173 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 390), |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | \-    | \-    | \-    | Pro   | 1.0.0 |
| 17.09 | N\#77 | 71872 |       |       |       | vided |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | \-    | \-    | \-    | Corre | 1.0.1 |
| 17.09 | N\#77 | 72036 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | some  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | auto- |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forma |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssues |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | Alig  | 1.0.2 |
| 17.09 | AN2\# | 11526 |       |       |       | nment |       |
|       | 99bis |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ology |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | diff  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | odes: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trodu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n-gNB |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | term  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eplac |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MeNB  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SgNB  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on UE |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ca    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pabil |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ities |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2.2-2 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | there |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | one   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDAP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | per   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cell  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | group |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | End   | 1.1.0 |
| 17.10 | AN2\# | 11937 |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       | 99bis |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN2\# |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 99bis |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | Agree | 1.1.1 |
| 17.10 | AN2\# | 12072 |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       | 99bis |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN2\# |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 99bis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | har   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moniz |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN/SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- UE |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ca    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pabil |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ities |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Sec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pects |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | A     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Text  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Prop  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | osals |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R2-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 11929 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nvolv |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R2-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 11942 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN3\# |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 97bis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4254, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | colle |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anges |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74214 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |  Text |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | posal |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | QoS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DC    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4132  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Compl |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | etion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tunne |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4136  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Stage |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2 TP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MAC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reset |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -1742 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 21 TP |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Suppo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ini   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tiate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -1741 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 94 UE |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -AMBR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nforc |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74234 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |  Seco |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | olume |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -1741 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 60 MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | role  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | QoS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | flow  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ma    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pping |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 17410 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1 Cle |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an-up |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Part  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN2  | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | Clean | 1.2.0 |
| 17.11 | \#100 | 12301 |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN2  | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | MR-DC | 1.2.1 |
| 17.11 | \#100 | 12302 |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .300: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | two   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RNTIs |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ind   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | epend |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ently |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | allo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ot    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLF   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lared |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | separ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ately |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ro    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aming |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ccess |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stric |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \- on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SPS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BSR   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | conf  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igura |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trigg |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Add   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of a  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ideal |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | back  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | haul. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | use   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB3. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | key   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hand  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ling. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | va    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rious |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Fi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moval |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FFSs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to a  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sep   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | list) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN2  | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | A     | 1.2.2 |
| 17.12 | \#100 | 14080 |       |       |       | greed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Text  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Prop  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | osals |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R2-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 13141 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R2-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 13838 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDPC  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R2-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 14176 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moval |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R2-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 14183 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Stage |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2 TP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R2-17 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 14237 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | QoS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fram  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ework |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74308 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eanup |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | efere |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nce/d |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | efini |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74565 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74661 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | que   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rying |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCGc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | onfig |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B/gNB |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74763 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for a |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | un    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5G    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | User  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Plane |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tocol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74876 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Fu    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rther |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cle   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an-up |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Part  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74913 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dover |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74916 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rface |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gNB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | O     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74917 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unnel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ID    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | swit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ching |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | recon |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74921 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | I     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrod |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ucing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | har   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moniz |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | --    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | parts |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74923 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IE in |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | init  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74928 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -AMBR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74930 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Stage |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2 for |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | seco  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | olume |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 75009 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rem   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forwa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cor   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | respo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | node  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 75048 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Stage |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2 TP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R3-1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 74975 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Race  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | condi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Other |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mis   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cella |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN2  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#100 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN2  | R2-17 | \-    | \-    | \-    | RAN2  | 1.3.0 |
| 17.12 | \#100 | 14251 |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-78 | RP-1  | \-    | \-    | \-    | Pro   | 2.0.0 |
| 17.12 |       | 72464 |       |       |       | vided |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roval |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-78 |       |       |       |       | Upg   | 1     |
| 17/12 |       |       |       |       |       | raded | 5.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-15 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-79 | RP-1  | 0004  | 1     | F     | Mis   | 1     |
| 18/03 |       | 80440 |       |       |       | cella | 5.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-79 | RP-1  | 0008  | 1     | F     | Bas   | 1     |
|       |       | 80440 |       |       |       | eline | 5.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (RAN3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | part) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cov   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#NR  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | adhoc |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1801  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#99  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0012  | 2     | F     | Fu    | 1     |
| 18/06 |       | 81214 |       |       |       | rther | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aneus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0014  | 1     | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 81214 |       |       |       | EN-DC | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anges |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0015  | 1     | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 81214 |       |       |       | EN-DC | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | recon |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | via   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0017  | \-    | F     | Radio | 1     |
|       |       | 81214 |       |       |       | Pro   | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tocol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ar    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | chite |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cture |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDAP  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0018  | 1     | F     | Stage | 1     |
|       |       | 81215 |       |       |       | 2 CR  | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bined |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | point |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0021  | 1     | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 81215 |       |       |       | ction | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0024  | 1     | F     | L2    | 1     |
|       |       | 81215 |       |       |       | han   | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | when  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ength |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anged |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0025  | 1     | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 81215 |       |       |       | ction | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | confi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gured |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | asure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | after |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0026  | 1     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 81215 |       |       |       | rific | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usage |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tra   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsfer |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0027  | \-    | F     | Add   | 1     |
|       |       | 81215 |       |       |       | ition | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | full  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | onfig |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indi  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cator |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0028  | 2     | F     | Co    | 1     |
|       |       | 81216 |       |       |       | ordin | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Inact |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0029  | \-    | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 81216 |       |       |       | m     | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ainta |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ining |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rap-a |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | round |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0030  | 2     | F     | Ena   | 1     |
|       |       | 81216 |       |       |       | bling | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e-use |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of NR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PCIs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cells |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | same  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN in |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0037  | 2     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
| 18/09 |       | 81939 |       |       |       | rific | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | umber |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of CC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR CA |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0039  | 2     | F     | CR    | 1     |
|       |       | 81942 |       |       |       | for   | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CA    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uplic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LTE   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0042  | \-    | F     | Capt  | 1     |
|       |       | 81942 |       |       |       | uring | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | agre  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Count |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wrap  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | round |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | split |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0043  | 1     | F     | Mis   | 1     |
|       |       | 81941 |       |       |       | cella | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0044  | 1     | F     | Incl  | 1     |
|       |       | 81941 |       |       |       | usion | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gap   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0046  | 2     | F     | Small | 1     |
|       |       | 81942 |       |       |       | corre | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | about |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bear  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0047  | 3     | F     | CR to | 1     |
|       |       | 81942 |       |       |       | 3     | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Layer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0048  | \-    | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 81939 |       |       |       | the   | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mode  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | recon |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0051  | \-    | F     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 81939 |       |       |       | orrec | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-81 | RP-1  | 0054  | 1     | F     | NR    | 1     |
|       |       | 81941 |       |       |       | C     | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (3    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Bas   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eline |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cov   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3-101 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | greem |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ents) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0067  | 1     | F     | Split | 1     |
| 18/12 |       | 82650 |       |       |       | SRB   | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0071  | 1     | F     | Mis   | 1     |
|       |       | 82656 |       |       |       | cella | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0073  | 4     | B     | Agree | 1     |
|       |       | 82669 |       |       |       | ments | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0079  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 82651 |       |       |       | ction | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | termi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0082  | 3     | F     | Up    | 1     |
|       |       | 82667 |       |       |       | dates | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to UE |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | capab |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0084  | 2     | F     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 82664 |       |       |       | orrec | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tra   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsfer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0085  | 3     | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 82666 |       |       |       | ction | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Init  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Gap   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0086  | 1     | F     | Stage | 1     |
|       |       | 82660 |       |       |       | 2 CR  | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gap   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scen  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arios |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-82 | RP-1  | 0092  | 1     | B     | Bas   | 1     |
|       |       | 82669 |       |       |       | eline | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0090  | 3     | F     | C     | 1     |
| 19/03 |       | 90543 |       |       |       | orrec | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dures |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0096  | 2     | F     | QoS   | 1     |
|       |       | 90543 |       |       |       | flow  | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | offlo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ading |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0098  | 1     | F     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 90540 |       |       |       | trodu | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IDC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mech  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anism |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0104  | 1     | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 90543 |       |       |       | ction | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on UP |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | grity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | prote |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | late  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | drop  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0106  | 1     | F     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 90543 |       |       |       | orrec | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quest |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0107  | \-    | F     | P     | 1     |
|       |       | 90553 |       |       |       | SCell | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LI    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pur   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | poses |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0108  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 90544 |       |       |       | ction | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of EN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DC    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | olume |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reloc |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0110  | \-    | F     | Data  | 1     |
|       |       | 90544 |       |       |       | v     | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | olume |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0111  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 90544 |       |       |       | ction | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trig  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gered |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | split |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0112  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 90544 |       |       |       | ction | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | split |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dover |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0113  | \-    | F     | TEID  | 1     |
|       |       | 90544 |       |       |       | c     | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | key   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-83 | RP-1  | 0114  | 1     | F     | Su    | 1     |
|       |       | 90545 |       |       |       | pport | 5.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | split |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dover |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0116  | 1     | F     | MN-SN | 1     |
| 19/06 |       | 91375 |       |       |       | co    | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ANR   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0118  | 3     | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 91378 |       |       |       | 3     | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s-Me  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | asure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NE-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0120  | \-    | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 91374 |       |       |       | rific | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | add   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0122  | \-    | F     | Act   | 1     |
|       |       | 91374 |       |       |       | ivati | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on/de |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | activ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cells |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0123  | \-    | F     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 91374 |       |       |       | orrec | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inter |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -node |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | res   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ource |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0124  | 1     | F     | M     | 1     |
|       |       | 91376 |       |       |       | easur | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gap   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0125  | 2     | F     | Inte  | 1     |
|       |       | 91379 |       |       |       | r-RAT | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0126  | 1     | F     | Edit  | 1     |
|       |       | 91376 |       |       |       | orial | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cle   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an-up |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0133  | \-    | F     | Va    | 1     |
|       |       | 91379 |       |       |       | rious | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clea  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n-ups |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0134  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 91380 |       |       |       | ction | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trig  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gered |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | split |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0135  | 1     | F     | Allow | 1     |
|       |       | 91381 |       |       |       | MN to | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ret   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rieve |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forwa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | posal |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ource |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0136  | \-    | F     | RAN   | 1     |
|       |       | 91380 |       |       |       | p     | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aging |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in SN |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0137  | \-    | F     | Rappo | 1     |
|       |       | 91380 |       |       |       | rteur | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clea  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n-ups |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Seco  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | olume |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eport |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0138  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 91380 |       |       |       | ction | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ences |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | GTP   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unnel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | end   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | point |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0139  | \-    | F     | In-   | 1     |
|       |       | 91380 |       |       |       | order | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | del   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivery |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | when  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | QoS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | flows |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | offl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oaded |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0140  | \-    | F     | RAN   | 1     |
|       |       | 91380 |       |       |       | sh    | 5.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mul   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tiple |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cell  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ID    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | broa  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dcast |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0141  | 1     | F     | PDCP  | 1     |
| 19/09 |       | 92191 |       |       |       | con   | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gener |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0142  | 1     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 92190 |       |       |       | rific | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sel   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ected |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BandC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ombin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0143  | 3     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 92194 |       |       |       | rific | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | about |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | diff  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nodes |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0144  | 2     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 92193 |       |       |       | rific | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dover |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ology |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0145  | 1     | F     | De    | 1     |
|       |       | 92191 |       |       |       | fault | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0148  | 1     | F     | Capab | 1     |
|       |       | 92192 |       |       |       | ility | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0151  | 1     | F     | LTE   | 1     |
|       |       | 92191 |       |       |       | to    | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Inte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r-RAT |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0153  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 92190 |       |       |       | ction | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | E-RAB |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Indic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0154  | 1     | F     | TS3   | 1     |
|       |       | 92191 |       |       |       | 7.340 | 5.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rappo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rteur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cle   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anups |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0155  | 2     | F     | PDCP  | 1     |
| 19/12 |       | 92934 |       |       |       | ve    | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0157  | 3     | F     | SMTC  | 1     |
|       |       | 92936 |       |       |       | se    | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0158  | 3     | F     | PDCP  | 1     |
|       |       | 92937 |       |       |       | con   | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gener |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | email |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | discu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 107   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#25) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0159  | 3     | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 92936 |       |       |       | ction | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | I     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | via   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB3  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0160  | 2     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 92938 |       |       |       | rific | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | synch |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roniz |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0163  | 2     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 92938 |       |       |       | rific | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | key   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | earer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | point |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0168  | 1     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 92936 |       |       |       | rific | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | QoS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MRDC  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5G CN |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0169  | 1     | F     | Mi    | 1     |
|       |       | 92936 |       |       |       | ssing | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RACH  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spect |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DC    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0170  | \-    | F     | IP    | 1     |
|       |       | 92937 |       |       |       | ve    | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | X2-U  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0171  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 92937 |       |       |       | ction | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_INA |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CTIVE |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0172  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 92938 |       |       |       | ction | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tra   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsfer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DC    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0174  | 1     | F     | DRB   | 1     |
|       |       | 92938 |       |       |       | ID    | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co-   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0175  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 92938 |       |       |       | cting | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sbeha |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | viors |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | clea  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n-ups |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spilt |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0177  | \-    | F     | S     | 1     |
|       |       | 92938 |       |       |       | tage2 | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_Ina |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ctive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \@5GC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0178  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 92938 |       |       |       | ction | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of NG |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | conne |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in MR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DC    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0179  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 92938 |       |       |       | cting | 5.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sbeha |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | viors |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | clea  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n-ups |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forwa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tra   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsfer |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0173  | 1     | B     | S     | 1     |
|       |       | 92945 |       |       |       | tage2 | 6.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trodu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ARPI  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | &SPID |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0176  | 1     | B     | Res   | 1     |
|       |       | 92943 |       |       |       | uming | 6.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | esume |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-86 | RP-1  | 0180  | 1     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 92943 |       |       |       | rific | 6.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fered |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | no    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n-GBR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reso  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urces |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-87 | RP-2  | 0165  | 3     | B     | In    | 1     |
| 20/03 |       | 00350 |       |       |       | trodu | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRVCC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5G to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3G    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-87 | RP-2  | 0182  | 1     | B     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 00340 |       |       |       | trodu | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cross |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | link  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | terfe |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | manag |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-87 | RP-2  | 0183  | 2     | B     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 00341 |       |       |       | trodu | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR-U  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-87 | RP-2  | 0184  | 2     | B     | CR    | 1     |
|       |       | 00344 |       |       |       | for   | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | suppo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Power |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-87 | RP-2  | 0185  | \-    | B     | Stage | 1     |
|       |       | 00357 |       |       |       | 2 CR  | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Inte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r-RAT |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-87 | RP-2  | 0186  | 2     | B     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 00349 |       |       |       | ction | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-87 | RP-2  | 0187  | \-    | B     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 00346 |       |       |       | trodu | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of 5G |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Sid   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | elink |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-87 | RP-2  | 0188  | \-    | B     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 00348 |       |       |       | trodu | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CA/DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | en    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0189  | 4     | F     | SRB3  | 1     |
| 20/07 |       | 01174 |       |       |       | for   | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UAI   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | power |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aving |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0192  | 3     | F     | Mis   | 1     |
|       |       | 01179 |       |       |       | cella | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0194  | 2     | A     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 01160 |       |       |       | ction | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN-SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | asure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | INM   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0195  | 3     | B     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 01181 |       |       |       | trodu | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IIOT  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fea   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0198  | 2     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 01166 |       |       |       | rific | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0205  | 1     | A     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 01162 |       |       |       | orrec | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MAC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0208  | 1     | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 01191 |       |       |       | ction | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN-SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | asure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | INM   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0209  | \-    | F     | DCCA  | 1     |
|       |       | 01178 |       |       |       | c     | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0210  | \-    | B     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 01177 |       |       |       | trodu | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ondit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ional |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ra-SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nvolv |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0211  | \-    | B     | Su    | 1     |
|       |       | 01178 |       |       |       | pport | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r-RAT |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dover |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | res   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ponse |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CGFai |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lureI |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0212  | 1     | B     | TS3   | 1     |
|       |       | 01177 |       |       |       | 7.340 | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tage2 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trodu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mob   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | E     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nhanc |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0213  | \-    | B     | Suppo | 1     |
|       |       | 01180 |       |       |       | rting | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RACS  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0214  | \-    | C     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 01212 |       |       |       | trodu | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Inte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r-gNB |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SI-RS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Based |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mob   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0216  | 1     | A     | Su    | 1     |
|       |       | 01296 |       |       |       | pport | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | br    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oadca |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ystem |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-89 | RP-2  | 0218  | \-    | F     | Minor | 1     |
| 20/09 |       | 01930 |       |       |       | Corre | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CPC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-89 | RP-2  | 0222  | 1     | F     | Mand  | 1     |
|       |       | 01932 |       |       |       | atory | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | full  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rate  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | user  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plane |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | grity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | prote |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-89 | RP-2  | 0223  | 1     | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 01930 |       |       |       | ction | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | signa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | flow  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CPC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-89 | RP-2  | 0225  | 1     | F     | Mis   | 1     |
|       |       | 01924 |       |       |       | cella | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-89 | RP-2  | 0227  | \-    | F     | Mis   | 1     |
|       |       | 01922 |       |       |       | cella | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DCCA  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-89 | RP-2  | 0228  | \-    | F     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 01933 |       |       |       | ter-s | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ystem |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | irect |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forwa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hared |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | en-gN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B/gNB |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-89 | RP-2  | 0230  | 1     | F     | Fu    | 1     |
|       |       | 01938 |       |       |       | rther | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CA-   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | based |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uplic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Indus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IoT   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-89 | RP-2  | 0231  | 1     | F     | I     | 1     |
|       |       | 01931 |       |       |       | ntrod | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ucing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Radio |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Capab |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ma    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pping |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0220  | 2     | F     | C     | 1     |
| 20-12 |       | 02774 |       |       |       | orrec | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CPC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inv   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | olved |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0233  | 1     | A     | UE    | 1     |
|       |       | 02790 |       |       |       | Ca    | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pabil |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ities |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0234  | \-    | F     | CR to | 1     |
|       |       | 02772 |       |       |       | 3     | 6,4,0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SRB3  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0235  | 1     | B     | CR    | 1     |
|       |       | 02770 |       |       |       | for   | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | power |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R\_DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0236  | 1     | F     | Mis   | 1     |
|       |       | 02774 |       |       |       | cella | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mob   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | En    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0238  | \-    | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 02777 |       |       |       | rific | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | seco  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0239  | \-    | F     | Full  | 1     |
|       |       | 02777 |       |       |       | rate  | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UP IP |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0241  | 1     | A     | End   | 1     |
|       |       | 02790 |       |       |       | m     | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arker |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | init  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | QoS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Flow  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | offlo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ading |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-90 | RP-2  | 0242  | \-    | F     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 02769 |       |       |       | orrec | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AQP   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | no    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-91 | RP-2  | 0244  | \-    | A     | Corre | 1     |
| 21-03 |       | 10701 |       |       |       | ction | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Indic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-91 | RP-2  | 0245  | 1     | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 10689 |       |       |       | c     | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | o-con |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sid   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | elink |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-91 | RP-2  | 0246  | 1     | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 10690 |       |       |       | su    | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ithin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | same  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | g     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NB-DU |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-91 | RP-2  | 0248  | 1     | F     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 10703 |       |       |       | orrec | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on UL |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | power |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sh    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aring |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-91 | RP-2  | 0249  | 1     | A     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 10702 |       |       |       | ction | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | user  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plane |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | full  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-91 | RP-2  | 0251  | \-    | F     | N     | 1     |
|       |       | 10698 |       |       |       | on-su | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CH    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | O/CPC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LT    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | E/5GC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-91 | RP-2  | 0254  | \-    | A     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 10701 |       |       |       | ction | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of DL |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | End   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ma    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rkers |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | QoS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Flow  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mob   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0256  | 1     | A     | CR on | 1     |
| 21-06 |       | 11483 |       |       |       | MN    | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | estri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0257  | 2     | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 11471 |       |       |       | SCG   | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spend |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0258  | 1     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 11472 |       |       |       | rific | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on IP |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | acket |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | D     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tedIn |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | foF1c |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0261  | 3     | F     | Mis   | 1     |
|       |       | 11471 |       |       |       | cella | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DCCA, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -step |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RACH, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IIOT  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0262  | 2     | F     | Mis   | 1     |
|       |       | 11473 |       |       |       | cella | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mob   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nhanc |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0264  | 1     | A     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 11482 |       |       |       | SCG   | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0272  | \-    | A     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 11485 |       |       |       | ction | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | key   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forwa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | upon  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | full  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0274  | \-    | A     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 11486 |       |       |       | rific | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | full  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | onfig |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0275  | \-    | F     | 3     | 1     |
|       |       | 11473 |       |       |       | 7.340 | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CHO   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | early |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forwa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B/gNB |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sce   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nario |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0276  | \-    | F     | Add   | 1     |
|       |       | 11480 |       |       |       | ition | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sid   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | elink |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | res   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ource |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ordin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0278  | \-    | A     | No    | 1     |
|       |       | 11484 |       |       |       | pa    | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rtial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ccess |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | init  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-92 | RP-2  | 0280  | \-    | A     | R     | 1     |
|       |       | 11484 |       |       |       | 16CR3 | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-93 | RP-2  | 0266  | 2     | A     | Cla   | 1     |
| 21-09 |       | 12438 |       |       |       | rific | 6.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RACH  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-93 | RP-2  | 0285  | \-    | A     | Cle   | 1     |
|       |       | 12438 |       |       |       | an-up | 6.7.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Xn-U  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ad    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dress |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Indic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-94 | RP-2  | 0288  | \-    | F     | C     | 1     |
| 21-12 |       | 13341 |       |       |       | orrec | 6.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SC    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | G/MCG |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-94 | RP-2  | 0291  | \-    | A     | Cla   | 1     |
|       |       | 13341 |       |       |       | rific | 6.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SgNB  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7.340 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-94 | RP-2  | 0292  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
|       |       | 13341 |       |       |       | ction | 6.8.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -init |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-95 | RP-2  | 0300  | 1     | A     | Cla   | 1     |
| 22-03 |       | 20472 |       |       |       | rific | 6.9.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-MN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dover |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-95 | RP-2  | 0303  | 1     | F     | CR on | 1     |
|       |       | 20835 |       |       |       | data  | 6.9.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forwa |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | E     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N-DC/ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SA    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dover |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-96 | RP-2  | 0323  | 1     | F     | Corre | 16    |
| 22-06 |       | 21712 |       |       |       | ction | .10.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | activ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-96 | RP-2  | 0325  | 2     | F     | Rappo | 16    |
|       |       | 21714 |       |       |       | rteur | .10.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cle   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an-up |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-96 | RP-2  | 0327  | 1     | F     | Su    | 16    |
|       |       | 21713 |       |       |       | pport | .10.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1T    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | x-2Tx |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UL Tx |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | swit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ching |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-97 | RP-2  | 0341  | 1     | F     | Rappo | 16    |
| 22-09 |       | 22521 |       |       |       | rteur | .11.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cle   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an-up |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-98 | RP-2  | 0354  | 1     | F     | Corre | 16    |
| 22-12 |       | 23406 |       |       |       | ction | .12.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F1-C  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | affic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tra   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsfer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EN-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | RP-2  | 0369  | \-    | F     | Corre | 16    |
| 23-09 | P-101 | 32565 |       |       |       | ction | .13.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mob   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | estri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | list  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MR-DC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
