3GPP TS 37.461 V16.1.0 (2022-06)

Technical Specification

3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Iuant interface: Layer 1

(Release 16)

![](media/image1.jpeg){width="1.31875in" height="0.91875in"}
![](media/image2.png){width="1.7777777777777777in"
height="1.0368055555555555in"}

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> radio, EMC, power supply, antenna
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> <http://www.3gpp.org>

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 4

1 Scope 5

2 References 5

3 Definitions and abbreviations 5

3.1 Definitions 5

3.2 Abbreviations 5

4 Iuant layer 1 6

4.1 General 6

4.2 RS485 option 7

4.3 Modem option 7

4.3.1 Interference with existing systems 9

4.3.1.1 Carrier frequency and frequency stability 9

4.3.1.2 Modem isolation and modem emissions 9

4.3.1.3 Modem intermodulation attenuation 10

4.3.2 Recovery time 10

4.3.3 Impedance 10

4.3.4 Modulator characteristics 11

4.3.4.1 Levels 11

4.3.4.2 Spectrum emission mask 11

4.3.5 Demodulator characteristics 11

4.3.6 Duty cycle variation 11

4.3.7 Operating bands 12

4.3.8 Time delay and accuracy 12

4.3.9 Insertion Loss 12

4.3.10 DC port isolation 13

4.3.11 RET control unit spurious emission 13

4.3.12 Control unit spurious emission 13

4.4 DC power supply 14

4.4.1 Power consumption 14

4.4.2 Conducted emission 14

4.4.3 Power-up characteristics 14

Annex A (normative): Test procedures 16

Annex B (informative): Change history 17

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards allowed to implement layer
1 on the Iuant interface for UTRA, E-UTRA and NR.

The specification of transmission delay requirements and O&M
requirements are not in the scope of the present document.

The modem option of Iuant layer 1 specification in clause 4.3 applies to
UTRA, E-UTRA BS and NR BS type 1-C.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

● References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

● For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

● For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 37.462: \"UTRAN Iuant interface: Signalling transport\".

\[2\] ISO/IEC 8482 (1993-12): \"Information technology -
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems - Twisted
pair multipoint interconnections\".

\[3\] TIA/EIA TSB89: \"Application guidelines for TIA/EIA-485-A\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access
Network; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception (FDD)\"

\[5\] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"

\[6\] 3GPP TS 38.101: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)\"

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**On-Off-Keying:** A modulation system in which a carrier is switched
between two states, ON and OFF.

**Common feeder cable:** Feeder cable where some antenna line devices
(e.g. RET, TMA) are connected via the same feeder cable.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

BS Base Station

DC Direct Current

DL Downlink

FDD Frequency Division Duplex

ISB Idle-State Biasing

OOK On-Off-Keying

RET Remote Electrical Tilting

RF Radio Frequency

TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier

UE User Equipment

UL Uplink

UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System

UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

4 Iuant layer 1
===============

4.1 General
-----------

There are two layer 1 options:

\- RS485 option: A screened multicore cable, which supports a
conventional RS485 serial multi-drop bus.

\- Modem option: A connection to a RET and/or a TMA control unit by way
of a coaxial cable which is shared with DC supply and RF signals.

Both layer 1 options support the connection of two-way serial data and
DC power to the RET and/or TMA antenna device.

At least one of these two layer 1 options shall be supported.

The default data rate for both layer 1 options shall be 9.6 kbps. Higher
data rates of 38.4 kbps for both layer 1 options and 115.2 kbps only for
the RS485 layer 1 option may optionally be supported. Each unit
communicates on one of the three data rates, but different units on the
same interface may use different data rates.

After a reset, a secondary device shall alternate between supported data
rates. When alternating between data rates, the data rate shall be held
constant for 300 ms. After every correctly received device scan command
(see TS 37.462 \[1\]) independent of whether it matches or not, at one
of the supported data rates, that data rate shall be held constant for
1.5 seconds. After successful reception of an address assignment frame,
the secondary device shall use that data rate until it is reset.

Data rates:

\- 9.6 kbps ± 3 %

\- 38.4 kbps ± 3 %

\- 115.2 kbps ± 3 %

The format of the data octet shall be as shown in figure 4.1.1:

Figure 4.1.1: Format and order of transmitted data

4.2 RS485 option
----------------

This option is constituted by a two wire bi-directional multi-drop
configuration conforming to ISO/IEC 8482 \[2\]. The mapping of
mark/space to logical one and zero as referred to in ISO/IEC 8482 \[2\]
shall be according to figure 4.1.1.

The use of ISB, also called idle-line failsafe in TIA/EIA TSB89 \[3\],
is mandatory. The bias voltages shall be applied only by the primary
device to any separate RS485 bus. The polarity of the idle-state bias is
defined as a transmitted 1.

The RS485 transmitter shall be set to drive the bus before the first
start bit is sent and held active until the last stop bit is sent. The
RS485 transmitter shall stop driving the bus within 20 bit-times after
the last stop bit is sent.

If an antenna modem is used ISB shall be implemented by the antenna
modem.

4.3 Modem option
----------------

The connection to a RET and/or a TMA control unit by way of a coaxial
cable which is shared with DC supply and RF signals is provided by two
modems, a BS modem and an antenna modem. The BS modem shall be either
connected to the antenna connector of the BS or integrated in the BS. It
provides signal transmission to the antenna modem and signal reception
from the antenna modem over the antenna feeder cable. The antenna modem
is located between the antenna feeder cable and the antenna. Modem
configurations and reference points for modem characteristics are
specified in figure 4.3.1 and figure 4.3.2. Unless otherwise stated,
requirements in this section apply to both BS modem and antenna modem.

Figure 4.3.1: Modem configuration and modem reference points for a BS
without BS modem

Figure 4.3.2: Modem configuration and modem reference points for\
a BS with integrated BS modem

### 4.3.1 Interference with existing systems

The modem circuit shall be capable of managing its transmitting
characteristic according to subclause 4.3.5.

#### 4.3.1.1 Carrier frequency and frequency stability

The following carrier frequency shall be used for this application:

2.176 MHz ± 100 ppm

#### 4.3.1.2 Modem isolation and modem emissions

The external BS modem shall provide minimum attenuation according to
figure 4.3.1.2.1 between reference point 2 and reference point 1 to
protect the BS from emissions of the antenna modem.

External BS modem emissions at reference point 1 shall be attenuated at
least according to the modem attenuation in figure 4.3.1.2.1 below the
levels specified for the modem spectrum emission mask in subclause
4.3.4.2 to protect the BS from emissions of the BS modem.

The antenna modem shall provide minimum attenuation according to figure
4.3.1.2.1 between reference point 3 and reference point 4 to protect
other radio systems from emission of the BS modem.

Antenna modem emissions at reference point 4 shall be attenuated at
least according to the modem attenuation in figure 4.3.1.2.1 below the
levels specified for the modem spectrum emission mask in subclause
4.3.4.2 to protect other radio systems from emission of the antenna
modem.

Figure 4.3.1.2.1: Modem attenuation

#### 4.3.1.3 Modem intermodulation attenuation

The modem intermodulation attenuation is specified in terms of the power
in intermodulation products of WCDMA modulated carriers present at
reference point 1 or reference point 3.

For 2 downlink carriers of 43 dBm the power of third order
intermodulation products in the UL operating bands for the external BS
modem and antenna modem shall not exceed:

\- -- 130 dBm/100 kHz for frequencies \< 1 GHz

\- -- 120 dBm/1 MHz for frequencies ≥ 1 GHz

NOTE: Using the modem with higher power than 43 dBm and or with more
carriers than 2 carriers at 43dBm/carrier may increase intermodulation
products and may degrade the receiver sensitivity of the BS if these
intermodulation products fall at BS receive frequencies.

For the worst input configuration of power and number of carriers
declared by the modem manufacturer the power of any intermodulation
product for the external BS modem and antenna modem shall not exceed:

\- -- 98dBm/100kHz

In addition, for the worst input configuration of power and number of
carriers declared by the modem manufacturer the power of fifth or higher
order intermodulation products in the UL operating bands for the
external BS modem and antenna modem shall not exceed:

\- -- 135 dBm/100 kHz for frequencies \< 1 GHz

\- -- 125 dBm/1 MHz for frequencies ≥ 1 GHz

### 4.3.2 Recovery time

A minimum recovery time shall be allowed between receiving and
transmitting messages on the bus. For this reason a minimum permitted
response time is specified in subclause 4.5 in TS 37.462 \[1\].

### 4.3.3 Impedance

The modem transceiver shall provide constant impedance in both
transmitting and receiving modes:

\- Nominal impedance Z~0~: 50 Ω;

\- Return loss at modem carrier frequency ± 0.1 MHz \> 10 dB;

\- Return loss in external BS and antenna modem operating bands \> 20
dB.

### 4.3.4 Modulator characteristics

#### 4.3.4.1 Levels

ON-Level: +3 dBm ± 2 dB

OFF-Level: ≤ -40 dBm

#### 4.3.4.2 Spectrum emission mask

The modem spectrum emission mask is specified in figure 4.3.4.2.1.
Intermediate values may be obtained by linear interpolation between the
points shown. The corresponding measurement bandwidths are specified in
table 4.3.4.2.1. For modem configurations according to figure 4.3.1 the
BS modem emissions shall not exceed the limits of the spectrum emission
mask at reference point 2. For modem configurations according to figure
4.3.2 the BS with integrated BS modem emissions shall not exceed the
limits of the spectrum emission mask at reference point 2 only for
frequencies below 20 MHz. Antenna modem emissions shall not exceed the
limits of the spectrum emission mask at reference point 3.

Figure 4.3.4.2.1: Modem spectrum emission mask.

Note 1: For frequencies \<1GHz the general emission limit is -108dBm,
except modem operating band UL frequencies where the emission limit is
-135 dBm.\
For frequencies ≥1GHz the general emission limit is -98dBm, except modem
operating band UL frequencies where the emission limit is -125 dBm.

Table 4.3.4.2.1: Modem spectrum emission mask measurement bandwidth

  Band                Measurement Bandwidth
  ------------------- -----------------------
  9 kHz - 150 kHz     1 kHz
  150 kHz - 30 MHz    10 kHz
  30 MHz - 1 GHz      100 kHz
  1 GHz - 12.75 GHz   1 MHz

### 4.3.5 Demodulator characteristics

The demodulator shall fulfil the requirement in subclause 4.3.6 for a
carrier ON-Level within +5 dBm to -12 dBm and a carrier OFF-Level less
than -18 dBm. The levels within --12 dBm to --18 dBm are undefined.

### 4.3.6 Duty cycle variation

In order to guarantee proper transmission of data bits through the
processes of modulation and demodulation, the following limit shall be
met for the duty cycle variation:

∆DC~SYSTEM~ = \|DC~RX~ -- DC~TX~\| ≤ 10 %

Where: ∆DC~SYSTEM~ is the difference between the duty cycles of the
transmitted and received bit streams,

DC~TX~ = Duty cycle for the input bit stream, and

DC~RX~ = Duty cycle for the output bit stream.

Figure 4.3.6.1: Duty cycles of the bit stream and OOK modulated
subcarrier

For transmission through a coaxial cable, two converters are required,
one from a bit stream to OOK (modulator) and one from OOK back to a bit
stream (demodulator). Therefore half of the total duty cycle tolerance
is available for each converter.

For an input bit stream with a duty ratio of 50 %, the cascaded
modulator and demodulator shall provide an output bit stream with a duty
ratio within the limits 40 % - 60 %, measured in each case at 0.5 times
peak amplitude (see figure 4.3.6.1).

### 4.3.7 Operating bands

A UTRA/FDD BS, UTRA/TDD BS, E-UTRA BS, NR BS or antenna modem is
designed to operate in one or several of the operating bands defined in
3GPP TS 25.101 \[4\], 3GPP TS 36.101 \[5\] and 3GPP TS 38.101 \[6\].

Table 4.3.7.1: Void

The operating bands of the BS modem or antenna modem shall be declared
by the manufacturer.

### 4.3.8 Time delay and accuracy

The time delay in the operating bands shall be declared by the
manufacturer with ± 1 ns accuracy. The time delay shall not exceed 30
ns. This requirement is only applicable to external BS modem and antenna
modem.

### 4.3.9 Insertion Loss

The insertion loss in the external BS modem or antenna modem operating
band shall be ≤ 0.3 dB.

The actual insertion loss shall be declared by the manufacturer.

### 4.3.10 DC port isolation

The isolation between DC port and RF ports shall meet the minimum values
in figure 4.3.10.1 and 4.3.10.2. Figure 4.3.10.1 is valid for antenna
modems between reference point 5 and 4 as well as 5 and 3 and for BS
modems without integrated power supply between reference point 6 and 2
as well as 6 and 1. Figure 4.3.10.2 is valid as additional requirement
for antenna modems between reference point 5 and 3 and for BS modems
without integrated power supply between reference point 6 and 2.

Figure 4.3.10.1: DC port isolation

Figure 4.3.10.2: DC port isolation

### 4.3.11 RET control unit spurious emission

Void.

### 4.3.12 Control unit spurious emission

The control unit, or a combination of control units, shall not generate
spurious emission, at reference point 5, above a level that will violate
the spectrum emission mask requirement according to chapter 4.3.4.2. The
DC port isolation according to chapter 4.3.10 shall be taken into
account.

4.4 DC power supply
-------------------

### 4.4.1 Power consumption

The DC supply requirements refers to reference points 3 and 5 in
subclause 4.3.

BS modem and an antenna modem shall be able to operate with a DC supply
voltage range of 10 V -- 30 V.

Power consumption modes are specified in table 4.4.1.1. and table
4.4.1.2.

Table 4.4.1.1: Power consumption modes for RET

  ---------------- ---------------------------
  RET Power mode   Maximum power consumption
  High             \< 13 W
  Low              \< 2 W
  ---------------- ---------------------------

Table 4.4.1.2: Power consumption modes for TMA

  ---------------- ---------------------------
  TMA Type         Maximum power consumption
  Single Unit      \< 7,5 W
  Multi Unit (N)   \< N \* 7,5 W
  ---------------- ---------------------------

BS modem and antenna modem maximum power consumption shall be \< 2 W.

BS modem and antenna modem shall impose a voltage drop less than 2 V
between reference point 3 and 5.

A Single Unit considers one RF amplifier in one TMA. A Multi Unit
considers N RF amplifiers in equal or less than N TMAs.

### 4.4.2 Conducted emission

The levels of generated conducted noise and ripple on DC Power supply
shall be within the limits given in table 4.4.2.1.

Table 4.4.2.1: Noise and ripple

  ------------------------ ----------- --------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
  Item                     Limit       Frequency       Remarks
  RET power mode High      70 mV~pp~   0.15 - 30 MHz   Only one operating unit a time
  RET power mode Low       20 mV~pp~   0.15 - 30 MHz   
  TMA                      20 mV~pp~   0.15 - 30 MHz   
  Antenna modem, RF port   15 mV~pp~   0.15 - 30 MHz   Generated Noise and Ripple at RF feeder (in RX mode)
  Antenna modem, DC port   20 mV~pp~   0.15 - 30 MHz   Allowed Noise and Ripple at external DC port (in TX mode)
  ------------------------ ----------- --------------- -----------------------------------------------------------

All units connected to a DC supply bus shall exhibit full performance up
to the limit of 112 mVpp total noise and ripple within 0.15 - 30 MHz.

### 4.4.3 Power-up characteristics

A BS modem, antenna modem or RET/TMA control units shall have a power-up
period of 3 s.

During the power-up period a BS modem, antenna modem or a RET control
unit shall exhibit the circuit equivalent of a DC power consumer with a
current consumption of maximum 400 mA in parallel with a capacitor of
maximum 0.5 µF.

During the power-up period the TMA control unit shall exhibit the
circuit equivalent of a DC power consumer with a current consumption of
maximum 1A in parallel with a capacitor of maximum 0.5 µF.

After the power-up period, the unit shall be fully functional and the
power consumption requirement as described in subclause 4.4.1 applies.

######## Annex A (normative): Test procedures

Test pattern

Spectrum mask and emission requirement shall be tested both with a
consecutive series of \"0\" and an alternating sequence of \"0\" and
\"1\".

Emission requirement below noise floor

As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment
should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve
measurement accuracy and sensitivity when measuring close to or below
the noise floor, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller than the
measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than the
measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the
measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth
of the measurement bandwidth.

Conversion between modulated and CW for IM measurement

The requirement for IM3 below 1 GHz shall be relaxed 15 dB and tested
with CW interferers at the specified levels.\
The requirement for IM3 above 1 GHz shall be relaxed 5 dB and tested
with CW interferers at the specified levels.

The requirement for IM5 or higher below 1 GHz shall be relaxed 10 dB and
tested with CW interferers at the specified levels.

The requirement for IM5 or higher above 1 GHz shall be relaxed 0 dB and
tested with CW interferers at the specified levels.

Example: A --130 dBm/100 kHz requirement below 1 GHz with two
WCDMA-modulated carriers at 43 dBm is converted to a --115 dBm
requirement with two CW carriers at 43 dBm.

########  Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                   **New version**
  2019-02              R3-103        R3-190087                                Text transferred from 25.461 v15.3.0 (changes shown with rev marks)   1.15.0
  2019-04              RAN\#83       RP-190590                                Specification approved by RAN plenary                                 15.4.0
  2020-07              RAN\#88-e     \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                        **16.0.0**
  2022-06              RAN\#96       RP-221155   0002     1         A         CR on clarification scope on Iuant modem                              **16.1.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
