3GPP TS 37.571-3 V16.14.0 (2022-12)

Technical Specification

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

User Equipment (UE) conformance specification for

UE positioning;

Part 3: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)

(Release 16)

![5G-logo\_175px](media/image1.jpeg){width="1.3305555555555555in"
height="0.9131944444444444in"}
![3GPP-logo\_web](media/image2.png){width="1.7826388888888889in"
height="1.0520833333333333in"}

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> mobile, UE, terminal, testing, UTRA, E-UTRA, EPC, LCS, UE positioning
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

Bluetooth® is a Trade Mark of the Bluetooth SIG registered for the
benefit of its members

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 4

Introduction 4

1 Scope 5

2 References 5

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 6

3.1 Definitions 6

3.2 Symbols 7

3.3 Abbreviations 7

4 Recommended Test Case Applicability 8

Annex A (normative): ICS proforma for User Equipment 74

A.1 Guidance for completing the ICS proforma 74

A.1.1 Purposes and structure 74

A.1.2 Abbreviations and conventions 74

A.1.3 Instructions for completing the ICS proforma 75

A.2 Identification of the User Equipment 75

A.2.1 Date of the statement 75

A.2.2 User Equipment Under Test (UEUT) identification 75

A.2.3 Product supplier 75

A.2.4 Client 76

A.2.5 ICS contact person 76

A.3 Identification of the protocol 77

A.4 ICS proforma tables 77

A.4.1 UE Implementation Types 77

A.4.2 Baseline Implementation Capabilities 79

A.4.3 UE Positioning Capabilities 80

A.4.4 Additional information 95

Annex B (informative): Change history 97

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

To evaluate conformance of a particular implementation, it is necessary
to have a statement of which capabilities and options have been
implemented for a telecommunication specification. Such a statement is
called an Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS).

The present document is part 3 of a multi-parts TS:

> 3GPP TS 37.571-1: User Equipment (UE) conformance specification for UE
> positioning; Part 1: Conformance test specification.
>
> **3GPP TS 37.571-2: User Equipment (UE) conformance specification for
> UE positioning; Part 2: Protocol conformance.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.571-3: User Equipment (UE) conformance specification for
> UE positioning; Part 3: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS).**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.**571**-4:** User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; **Part 4: Test suites.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.**571**-5:** User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; **Part 5: Test scenarios and
> assistance data.**

 1 Scope
=======

The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement
(ICS) proforma for UTRAN, E-UTRAN and NR User Equipment (UE) supporting
UE positioning, in compliance with the relevant requirements, and in
accordance with the relevant guidance given in ISO/IEC 9646-1 \[7\] and
ISO/IEC 9646-7 \[8\].

The present document also specifies a recommended applicability
statement for the test cases included in 3GPP TS 37.571-1 \[5\] and 3GPP
TS 37.571-2 \[6\]. These applicability statements are based on the
features implemented in the UE.

Special conformance testing functions can be found in 3GPP TS 34.109
\[10\] for UTRA, 3GPP TS 36.509 \[2\] for E-UTRA and 3GPP TS 38.509
\[14\] for NR. The common test environments are included in 3GPP TS
34.108 \[9\] for UTRA, in 3GPP TS 36.508 \[3\] for E-UTRA and in 3GPP TS
38.508-1 \[15\] for NR.

The present document is valid for UE supporting UE positioning
implemented according to 3GPP releases starting from Release 99 up to
the Release indicated on the cover page of the present document.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document in the same Release as the present document unless the context
in which the reference is made suggests a different Release is relevant
(information on the applicable release in a particular context can be
found in e.g. test case title, description or applicability, message
description or content).

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.509: \"Special conformance testing functions for User
Equipment\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 36.508: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); Common Test Environments for
User Equipment (UE) Conformance Testing\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 37. 571-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification
for UE positioning; Part 1: Conformance test specification\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 37. 571-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification
for UE positioning; Part 2: Protocol conformance\".

\[7\] ISO/IEC 9646-1: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and framework - Part
1: General concepts\".

\[8\] ISO/IEC 9646-7: \"Information technology - Open systems
interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and framework - Part
7: Implementation Conformance Statements\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 34.108: \"Common Test Environments for User Equipment (UE)
Conformance Testing\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 34.109: \"Terminal logical test interface; Special
conformance testing functions\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 36.523-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma specification\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 34.123-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma specification\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 38.509: \"Special conformance testing functions for User
Equipment (UE)\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 1: Common test environment\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 38.508-2: "5GS; UE conformance specification; Part 2:
Common Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 37.355: \"LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 38.215: \"NR; Physical layer measurements\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms,
definitions, symbols and abbreviations apply:

\- such given in TR 21.905\[1\]

\- such given in ISO/IEC 9646-1 \[7\] and ISO/IEC 9646-7 \[8\]

NOTE: Some terms and abbreviations defined in \[7\] and \[8\] are
explicitly included below with small modification to reflect the
terminology used in 3GPP.

3.1 Definitions
---------------

**Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS):** A statement made by the
supplier of an implementation or system claimed to conform to a given
specification, stating which capabilities have been implemented.

**ICS proforma:** A document, in the form of a questionnaire, which when
completed for an implementation or system becomes an ICS.

**Implementation eXtra Information for Testing (IXIT)**: A statement
made by a supplier or implementer of an UEUT which contains or
references all of the information (in addition to that given in the ICS)
related to the UEUT and its testing environment, which will enable the
test laboratory to run an appropriate test suite against the UEUT.

**IXIT proforma:** A document, in the form of a questionnaire, which
when completed for an UEUT becomes an IXIT.

**Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS):** An ICS for an
implementation or system claimed to conform to a given protocol
specification.

**Protocol Implementation eXtra Information for Testing (PIXIT):** An
IXIT related to testing for conformance to a given protocol
specification.

**static conformance review**: A review of the extent to which the
static conformance requirements are claimed to be supported by the UEUT,
by comparing the answers in the ICS(s) with the static conformance
requirements expressed in the relevant specification(s).

3.2 Symbols
-----------

No specific symbols have been identified so far.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

A-BDS Assisted-BeiDou Navigation Satellite System

A-Galileo Assisted- Galileo

A-GANSS Assisted- Galileo and Additional Navigation Satellite Systems

A-GLONASS Assisted- GLObal\'naya NAvigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema
(English: Global Navigation Satellite System)

A-GNSS Assisted - Global Navigation Satellite System

A-GPS Assisted - Global Positioning System

AP Access Point

A-QZSS Assisted- Quasi-Zenith Satellite System

A-SBAS Assisted- Space Based Augmentation System

BDS BeiDou Navigation Satellite System

BLE Bluetooth Low Energy

C/A Coarse/Acquisition

DL-AoD Downlink Angle-of-Departure

DL-TDOA Downlink Time Difference Of Arrival

DUT Device Under Test

E-CID Enhanced Cell-ID (positioning method)

eFDD Enhanced Frequency Division Duplex

ENB Evolved Node B

EN-DC E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity

eTDD Enhanced Time Division Duplex

E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network

FDD Frequency Division Duplex

FFS For Further Study

GANSS Galileo and Additional Navigation Satellite Systems

GLONASS GLObal\'naya NAvigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema (English:
Global Navigation Satellite System)

GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System

GPS Global Positioning System

ICS Implementation Conformance Statement

IXIT Implementation eXtra Information for Testing

LPP LTE Positioning Protocol

MBS Metropolitan Beacon System

MO-LR Mobile Originated Location Request

Multi-RTT Multi-Round Trip Time

MT-LR Mobile Terminated Location Request

NE-DC NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity

NGEN-DC NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity

NR E-CID NR Enhanced Cell ID (positioning method)

NG-RAN NextGen Radio Access Network

NR New Radio

NR-DC NR-NR Dual Connectivity

OTDOA Observed Time Difference Of Arrival

PICS Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement

PIXIT Protocol Implementation eXtra Information for Testing

QZSS Quasi-Zenith Satellite System

RRC Radio Resource Control

RSTD Reference Signal Time Difference

SBAS Space Based Augmentation System

SCS System Conformance Statement

TC Test Case

TDD Time Division Duplex

UE User Equipment

UEUT User Equipment Under Test

UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access

UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network

WLAN Wireless Local Area Network

4 Recommended Test Case Applicability
=====================================

The applicability of each individual test is identified in Table 4-1
(UTRA), 4 -3 and 4-3a (E-UTRA) and 4-11 (NR) for test cases in TS
37.571-1 \[5\] and in Table 4-5 (UTRA), 4-7 (E-UTRA) and 4-9 (NR) for
test cases in TS 37.571-2 \[6\]. This is just a recommendation based on
the purpose for which the test case was written.

The applicability of every test is formally expressed by the use of
Boolean expression that are based on parameters (ICS) included in annex
A of the present document.

Additional information related to the Test Case (TC), e.g. affecting its
dynamic behaviour or its execution may be provided as well

The columns in Tables 4-1, 4-3, 4-3a, 4-5, 4-7, 4-9 and 4-11 have the
following meaning:

##### Clause {#clause .H6}

The clause column indicates the clause number in TS 37.571-1 \[5\] and
TS 37.571-2 \[6\] that contains the test body.

##### Title {#title .H6}

The title column describes the name of the test and contains the clause
title of the clause in TS 37.571-1 \[5\] and TS 37.571-2 \[6\] that
contains the test body.

##### Applicability - Condition {#applicability---condition .H6}

The following notations are used for the applicability column:

R recommended - the test case is recommended

O optional - the test case is optional

N/A not applicable - in the given context, the test case is not
recommended.

Ci conditional - the test is recommended (\"R\") or not (\"N/A\")
depending on the support of other items. \"i\" is an integer identifying
an unique conditional status expression which is defined immediately
following the table. For nested conditional expressions, the syntax \"IF
\... THEN (IF \... THEN \... ELSE\...) ELSE \...\" is used to avoid
ambiguities.

NOTE: The conditions are defined in Table 4-2, 4-4, 4-6, 4-8, 4-10 and
4-12.

##### Applicability - Comments {#applicability---comments .H6}

This column contains a verbal description of the condition.

##### Additional Information - Specific ICS {#additional-information---specific-ics .H6}

This column contains the mnemonics of ICS(s) affecting the dynamic
behaviour of the TC.

NOTE: ICS items specified in 3GPP TS 36.523-2 \[11\] can be referred, to
avoid redundant definitions.

##### Additional Information - Specific IXIT {#additional-information---specific-ixit .H6}

This column contains the mnemonics of IXIT(s) affecting the dynamic
behaviour of the TC.

The columns in Tables 4-1 and 4-5 have the following meaning:

##### Release {#release .H6}

The release column indicates the earliest release from which the test
case is applicable.

The columns in Tables 4-3, 4-3a, 4-7, 4-9, and 4-11 have the following
meaning:

##### Release of LPP {#release-of-lpp .H6}

The Release of LPP column indicates the earliest release of the
positioning functionality in LPP (3GPP TS 36.355 \[4\] and 3GPP TS
37.355 \[17\]) from which the test case is applicable. Note that the
release of the positioning functionality does not have to align with
that of the RAT bearer.

##### Release RAT {#release-rat .H6}

The Release RAT column indicates the earliest release of the RAT bearer
over which the test should be conducted. Note that the release of the
positioning functionality does not have to align with that of the RAT
bearer.

NOTE: To meet the validation requirements from certification bodies then
there is a need to uniquely reference the 2Rx (UE supports 2 Rx antenna
ports in the tested band) and 4Rx (UE supports 4 Rx antenna ports in the
tested band) branch of common 2Rx and 4Rx OTDOA and ECID test cases in
table 4-3a. The 2Rx and 4Rx branches of common 2Rx and 4Rx test cases
can be referenced by amending a \"2Rx\" or \"4Rx\" suffix to the test
case clause number. For example for test case 8.1.1 the 2Rx and 4Rx
branches can be identified by \"8.1.1\_2Rx\" and \"8.1.1\_4Rx\".

Table 4-1: Applicability of tests and additional information for testing
for test cases in TS 37.571-1 \[5\] for UTRA

  ------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Clause**   **Title**                                                      **Release**   **Applicability**   **Comments**
  5.2.1        Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance                             Rel-6         C01ur               All UEs supporting FDD and UE-Based A-GPS L1 C/A or UE-Assisted A-GPS L1 C/A
  5.2.2        Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance                               Rel-6         C02ur               All UEs supporting FDD and UE-Based A-GPS L1 C/A or UE-Assisted A-GPS L1 C/A and Fine Time Assistance
  5.3          Nominal Accuracy                                               Rel-6         C01ur               All UEs supporting FDD and UE-Based A-GPS L1 C/A or UE-Assisted A-GPS L1 C/A
  5.4          Dynamic Range                                                  Rel-6         C01ur               All UEs supporting FDD and UE-Based A-GPS L1 C/A or UE-Assisted A-GPS L1 C/A
  5.5          Multi-path Performance                                         Rel-6         C01ur               All UEs supporting FDD and UE-Based A-GPS L1 C/A or UE-Assisted A-GPS L1 C/A
  5.6          Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance                Rel-6         C01ur               All UEs supporting FDD and UE-Based A-GPS L1 C/A or UE-Assisted A-GPS L1 C/A
  6.2.1-1      Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance: Sub-Test 1                 Rel-10        C03-1ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.2.1-2      Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance: Sub-Test 2                 Rel-12        C03-2ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.2.1-3      Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance: Sub-Test 3                 Rel-10        C03-3ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS
  6.2.1-4      Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance: Sub-Test 4                 Rel-10        C03-4ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.2.1-8      Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance: Sub-Test 8                 Rel-12        C03-8ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.2.1-9      Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance: Sub-Test 9                 Rel-12        C03-9ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with BDS
  6.2.1-10     Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance: Sub-Test 10                Rel-12        C03-10ur            All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS
  6.2.2-1      Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance: Sub-Test 1                   Rel-10        C04-1ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with GLONASS and Fine Time Assistance
  6.2.2-2      Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance: Sub-Test 2                   Rel-12        C04-2ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with Galileo and Fine Time Assistance
  6.2.2-3      Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance: Sub-Test 3                   Rel-10        C04-3ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS and Fine Time Assistance
  6.2.2-4      Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance: Sub-Test 4                   Rel-10        C04-4ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS and Fine Time Assistance
  6.2.2-8      Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance: Sub-Test 8                   Rel-12        C04-8ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo and Fine Time Assistance
  6.2.2-9      Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance: Sub-Test 9                   Rel-12        C04-9ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with BDS and Fine Time Assistance
  6.2.2-10     Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance: Sub-Test 10                  Rel-12        C04-10ur            All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS and Fine Time Assistance
  6.3-1        Nominal Accuracy: Sub-Test 1                                   Rel-10        C03-1ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.3-2        Nominal Accuracy: Sub-Test 2                                   Rel-12        C03-2ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.3-3        Nominal Accuracy: Sub-Test 3                                   Rel-10        C03-3ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS
  6.3-4        Nominal Accuracy: Sub-Test 4                                   Rel-10        C03-4ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.3-8        Nominal Accuracy: Sub-Test 8                                   Rel-12        C03-8ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.3-9        Nominal Accuracy: Sub-Test 9                                   Rel-12        C03-9ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with BDS
  6.3-10       Nominal Accuracy: Sub-Test 10                                  Rel-12        C03-10ur            All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS
  6.4-1        Dynamic Range: Sub-Test 1                                      Rel-10        C03-1ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.4-2        Dynamic Range: Sub-Test 2                                      Rel-12        C03-2ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.4-3        Dynamic Range: Sub-Test 3                                      Rel-10        C03-3ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS
  6.4-4        Dynamic Range: Sub-Test 4                                      Rel-10        C03-4ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.4-8        Dynamic Range: Sub-Test 8                                      Rel-12        C03-8ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.4-9        Dynamic Range: Sub-Test 9                                      Rel-12        C03-9ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with BDS
  6.4-10       Dynamic Range: Sub-Test 10                                     Rel-12        C03-10ur            All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS
  6.5-1        Multi-path Performance: Sub-Test 1                             Rel-10        C03-1ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.5-2        Multi- path Performance: Sub-Test 2                            Rel-12        C03-2ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.5-3        Multi- path Performance: Sub-Test 3                            Rel-10        C03-3ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS
  6.5-4        Multi- path Performance: Sub-Test 4                            Rel-10        C03-4ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.5-8        Multi- path Performance: Sub-Test 8                            Rel-12        C03-8ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.5-9        Multi- path Performance: Sub-Test 9                            Rel-12        C03-9ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with BDS
  6.5-10       Multi- path Performance: Sub-Test 10                           Rel-12        C03-10ur            All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS
  6.6-1        Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance: Sub-Test 1    Rel-10        C03-1ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.6-2        Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance: Sub-Test 2    Rel-12        C03-2ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.6-3        Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance: Sub-Test 3    Rel-10        C03-3ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Modernized GPS
  6.6-4        Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance: Sub-Test 4    Rel-10        C03-4ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with GLONASS
  6.6-8        Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance: Sub-Test 8    Rel-12        C03-8ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with Galileo
  6.6-9        Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance: Sub-Test 9    Rel-12        C03-9ur             All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GANSS or UE-Assisted A-GANSS with BDS
  6.6-10       Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance: Sub-Test 10   Rel-12        C03-10ur            All UEs supporting UE-Based A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS or UE-Assisted A-GPS and A-GANSS with BDS
  ------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 4-2: Applicability of tests Conditions for test cases in TS
37.571-1 \[5\] for UTRA

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C01ur IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/11) THEN R ELSE N/A  |
+======================================================================+
| > C02ur IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/11) AND A.4.3-1/12   |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03-1ur IF (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/7 THEN R ELSE N/A  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03-2ur IF (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/9 THEN R ELSE N/A  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03-3ur IF A.4.3-1/14 THEN R ELSE N/A                              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03-4ur IF A.4.3-1/15 THEN R ELSE N/A                              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03-8ur IF A.4.3-1/16 THEN R ELSE N/A                              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03-9ur IF A.4.3-1/13 THEN R ELSE N/A                              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03-10ur IF A.4.3-1/17 THEN R ELSE N/A                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04-1ur IF (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/7 AND A.4.3-1/12   |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04-2ur IF (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/9 AND A.4.3-1/12   |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04-3ur IF A.4.3-1/14 AND A.4.3-1/12 THEN R ELSE N/A               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04-4ur IF A.4.3-1/15 AND A.4.3-1/12 THEN R ELSE N/A               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04-8ur IF A.4.3-1/16 AND A.4.3-1/12 THEN R ELSE N/A               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04-9ur IF A.4.3-1/13 AND A.4.3-1/12 THEN R ELSE N/A               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04-10ur IF A.4.3-1/17 AND A.4.3-1/12 THEN R ELSE N/A              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Table 4-3: Applicability of tests and additional information for testing
for RAT-independent test cases in TS 37.571-1 \[5\] for E-UTRA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| C     | TC    | Re    | App   |       | Addit |       |       |       |
| lause | Title | lease | licab |       | ional |       |       |       |
|       |       | of    | ility |       | I     |       |       |       |
|       |       | LPP   |       |       | nform |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | Cond  | Co    | Spe   | Spe   | N     | Re    |
|       |       |       | ition | mment | cific | cific | umber | lease |
|       |       |       |       |       | ICS   | IXIT  | of TC | RAT   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Execu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | A     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -GNSS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | erfor |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | Rel-9 | C01er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.1-1 | ensit |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | Rel-9 | C02er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.1-2 | ensit |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | R     | C03er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.1-3 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | Rel-9 | C04er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.1-4 | ensit |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | Rel-9 | C05er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.1-5 | ensit |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | {#sec |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | tion} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | R     | C29er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.1-8 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | R     | C19er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.1-9 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-1} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1   | S     | R     | C20er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .1-10 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-2} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1   | S     | R     | C32er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .1-11 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1   | S     | R     | C79er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .1-12 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1   | S     | R     | C80er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .1-13 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | Rel-9 | C06er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.2-1 | ensit |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1C/A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | Rel-9 | C07er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.2-2 | ensit |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | R     | C08er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.2-3 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Gal |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ileo, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | Rel-9 | C09er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.2-4 | ensit |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS,  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | Rel-9 | C10er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.2-5 | ensit |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-3} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | R     | C30er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.2-8 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Gal |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ileo, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | S     | R     | C23er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 1.2-9 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-4} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1   | S     | R     | C24er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2-10 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-5} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1   | S     | R     | C33er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2-11 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1   | S     | R     | C81er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2-12 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1   | S     | R     | C82er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2-13 | ensit | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2-1 | No    | Rel-9 | C01er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | minal |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2-2 | No    | Rel-9 | C02er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | minal |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2-3 | No    | R     | C03er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | minal | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2-4 | No    | Rel-9 | C04er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | minal |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2-5 | No    | Rel-9 | C05er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | minal |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2-8 | No    | R     | C29er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | minal | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2-9 | No    | R     | C19er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | minal | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | No    | R     | C20er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2-10 | minal | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | No    | R     | C32er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2-11 | minal | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | No    | R     | C79er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2-12 | minal | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | No    | R     | C80er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2-13 | minal | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Accu  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3-1 | Dy    | Rel-9 | C01er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | namic |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3-2 | Dy    | Rel-9 | C02er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | namic |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3-3 | Dy    | R     | C03er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | namic | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3-4 | Dy    | Rel-9 | C04er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | namic |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-6} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3-5 | Dy    | Rel-9 | C05er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | namic |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3-8 | Dy    | R     | C29er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | namic | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3-9 | Dy    | R     | C19er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | namic | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Dy    | R     | C20er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3-10 | namic | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Dy    | R     | C32er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3-11 | namic | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Dy    | R     | C79er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3-12 | namic | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Dy    | R     | C80er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3-13 | namic | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | R     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.4-1 | Multi | Rel-9 | C01er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | -path |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.4-2 | Multi | Rel-9 | C02er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | -path |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.4-3 | Multi | R     | C03er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | -path | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-7} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.4-4 | Multi | Rel-9 | C04er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | -path |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.4-5 | Multi | Rel-9 | C05er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | -path |       |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.4-8 | Multi | R     | C29er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | -path | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.4-9 | Multi | R     | C19er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | -path | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Multi | R     | C20er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .4-10 | -path | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Multi | R     | C32er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .4-11 | -path | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Multi | R     | C79er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .4-12 | -path | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Multi | R     | C80er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .4-13 | -path | el-12 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | scen  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.5-1 | M     | R     | C01er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | oving | el-9, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | Re    |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | l‑10, |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   | Re    |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   | l‑11, |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic | Re    |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    | l‑12, |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: | R     |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   | el‑13 |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-8} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.5-2 | M     | R     | C02er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | oving | el-9, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | Re    |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | l‑10, |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   | Re    |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   | l‑11, |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic | Re    |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    | l‑12, |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: | R     |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   | el‑13 |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.5-3 | M     | Re    | C03er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | oving | l-12, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | R     |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el‑13 |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.5-4 | M     | R     | C04er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | oving | el-9, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | Re    |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | l‑10, |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   | Re    |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   | l‑11, |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic | Re    |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    | l‑12, |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: | R     |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   | el‑13 |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | secti |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | on-9} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.5-5 | M     | R     | C05er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | oving | el-9, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | Re    |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | l‑10, |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   | Re    |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   | l‑11, |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic | Re    |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    | l‑12, |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: | R     |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   | el‑13 |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#s  |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | ectio |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | n-10} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.5-8 | M     | Re    | C29er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | oving | l-12, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | R     |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el‑13 |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#s  |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | ectio |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | n-11} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.5-9 | M     | Re    | C19er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | oving | l-12, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | R     |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el‑13 |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#s  |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | ectio |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | n-12} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | Re    | C20er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5-10 | oving | l-12, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | R     |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el‑13 |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#s  |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | ectio |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | n-13} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **7.5 | M     | Rel   | C32er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| -11** | oving | -12,R |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | el‑13 |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | Re    | C79er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5-12 | oving | l-12, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | Rel   |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | 13    |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | Re    | C80er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5-13 | oving | l-12, |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   | Rel   |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | 13    |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | R     | C34er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5A-1 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | R     | C35er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5A-2 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | R     | C36er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5A-3 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | R     | C37er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5A-4 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | R     | C38er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5A-5 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | R     | C39er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5A-8 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | M     | R     | C40er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .5A-9 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | M     | R     | C41er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 5A.10 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | M     | R     | C85er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 5A.11 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | M     | R     | C83er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 5A-12 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | M     | R     | C84er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 5A-13 | oving | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | sce   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | e     |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | xcept |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | Cat   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | egory |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | M1/M2 |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | V     |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | oLTE. |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **E   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| *11** | -UTRA |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ^     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Note\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |  4^** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.1  | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | M     | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | easur | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Repo  |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Delay |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.1A | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | M     | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Repo  |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Delay |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 14    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.2  | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | S     | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ensit | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.2A | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | S     | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ensit |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 14    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.3  | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | No    | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | minal | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.3A | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | No    | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | minal |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 14    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.4  | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | Dy    | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | namic | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Range |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.4A | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | Dy    | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | namic |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Range |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 14    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.5  | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | M     | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | easur | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Mult  |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ipath |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.5A | MBS   | R     | C31er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | M     | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Mult  |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ipath |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (Re   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 14    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **E   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| *12** | -UTRA |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | BLE   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | requ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ireme |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nts** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | WLAN  | R     | C42er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.1.1 | AP    | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Iden  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tific | (Note |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation | 3)    |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | repo  |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | delay |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | under |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | minal |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | WLAN  | R     | C42er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.1.2 | AP    | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Iden  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tific | (Note |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation | 3)    |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | repo  |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | delay |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | under |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | dy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | namic |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | range |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Blue  | R     | C43er | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.1 | tooth | el-14 |       | LTE   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | iden  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tific | (Note |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation | 3)    |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Blue  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tooth |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| case  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| can   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| optio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nally |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ested |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Rel-9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UEs   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| LPP   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| R     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| el-13 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tures |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| BLE   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| surem |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ents. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MBS,  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 37.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 571-1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \[5\] |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 11    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ap    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| plies |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| both  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| E     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -UTRA |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| appli |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cabil |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ities |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cases |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| shown |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4-11. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5: If |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ignal |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| type  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| BDS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| supp  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| orted |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| inc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ludes |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| B1C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| then  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| R     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| el-16 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| LPP   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| requ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ired. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 4-3a: Applicability of tests and additional information for
testing for RAT-dependent test cases in TS 37.571-1 \[5\] for E-UTRA

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Clause</td>
<td>TC Title</td>
<td>Release of LPP</td>
<td>Applicability</td>
<td></td>
<td>Additional Information</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Condition</td>
<td>Comment</td>
<td>Specific ICS</td>
<td>Specific IXIT</td>
<td>Branch</td>
<td>Number of TC Executions</td>
<td>Release RAT</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>8</strong></td>
<td><strong>E-CID measurement requirements</strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>8.1.1</td>
<td>FDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case (Rel-9 to Rel-11)</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C11er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-9, Rel-10, Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>8.1.1A</td>
<td>FDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case (Rel-12 onwards)</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C11er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>8.1.1B</td>
<td>FDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C77er</td>
<td>Category 1bis FDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>8.1.2</td>
<td>TDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case (Rel-9 to Rel-11)</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C12er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-9, Rel-10, Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>8.1.2A</td>
<td>TDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case (Rel-12 onwards)</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C12er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>8.1.2B</td>
<td>FDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C78er</td>
<td>Category 1bis TDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>8.1.3</td>
<td>E-UTRAN FDD UE Rx–Tx Time Difference under Time-Domain Measurement Resource Restriction with Non-MBSFN ABS (eICIC)</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C25er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference and Feature Group Indictor 115</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>8.1.4</td>
<td>E-UTRAN TDD UE Rx–Tx Time Difference under Time-Domain Measurement Resource Restriction with Non-MBSFN ABS (eICIC)</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C26er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference and Feature Group Indictor 115</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>8.1.5</td>
<td>E-UTRAN FDD UE Rx–Tx time difference under Time Domain Measurement Resource Restriction with CRS Assistance Information and Non-MBSFN ABS (feICIC)</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C21er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference and CRS interference handling and Feature Group Indictor 115</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>8.1.6</td>
<td>E-UTRAN TDD UE Rx–Tx time difference under Time Domain Measurement Resource Restriction with CRS Assistance Information and Non-MBSFN ABS (feICIC)</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C22er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference and CRS interference handling and ss-CCH interference handling and Feature Group Indictor 115</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>8.1.7</td>
<td>E-UTRAN FDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case for Category M1/M2 UE in CEModeA</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C72er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1/M2 UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>8.1.8</td>
<td>E-UTRAN HD-FDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case for Category M1/M2 UE in CEModeA</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C73er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1/M2 UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>8.1.9</td>
<td>E-UTRAN TDD UE Rx-Tx time difference case for Category M1/M2 UE in CEModeA</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C74er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1/M2 UEs supporting E-CID with Rx-Tx time difference</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>9</strong></td>
<td><strong>OTDOA measurement requirements</strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.1.1</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C13er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.1.1A</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C44er</td>
<td>Category 1bis FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13 (Note 3)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.1.2</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C14er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.1.2A</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C45er</td>
<td>Category 1bis TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13 (Note 3)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.1.3</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C13er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.1.3A</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C44er</td>
<td>Category 1bis FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13 (Note 3)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.1.4</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C14er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.1.4A</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-9</td>
<td>C45er</td>
<td>Category 1bis TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13 (Note 3)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.2.1</td>
<td>FDD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement reporting delay</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C17er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-10 (Note 1)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.2.1A</td>
<td>FDD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement reporting delay for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
<td>C46er</td>
<td>Category 1bis FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13 (Note 1, 3)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.2.2</td>
<td>TDD-TDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement reporting delay</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C18er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-10 (Note 1)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.2.2A</td>
<td>TDD-TDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement reporting delay for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
<td>C47er</td>
<td>Category 1bis TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13 (Note 1, 3)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.2.4</td>
<td>FDD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Accuracy</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C17er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-10 (Note 1)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.2.4A</td>
<td>FDD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Accuracy for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C46er</td>
<td>Category 1bis FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13 (Note 1, 3)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.2.5</td>
<td>TDD-TDD inter-frequency RSTD Accuracy</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C18er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-10 (Note 1)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.2.5A</td>
<td>TDD-TDD inter-frequency RSTD Accuracy for UE Category 1bis</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C47er</td>
<td>Category 1bis TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-13 (Note 1, 3)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.1.1</td>
<td>FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C48er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.1.2</td>
<td>FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C60er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.2.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C49er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.2.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C61er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.3.1</td>
<td>TDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C50er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.3.2</td>
<td>TDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C62er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.4.1</td>
<td>FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C51er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.4.2</td>
<td>FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C63er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.5.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C52er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.5.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C64er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.6.1</td>
<td>TDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C53er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.6.2</td>
<td>TDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C65er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.7.1</td>
<td>FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C48er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.7.2</td>
<td>FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C60er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.8.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C49er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.8.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C61er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.9.1</td>
<td>TDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C50er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.9.2</td>
<td>TDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C62er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.10.1</td>
<td>FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C51er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.10.2</td>
<td>FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C63er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.11.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C52er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.11.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C64er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.12.1</td>
<td>TDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C53er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.12.2</td>
<td>TDD intra-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C65er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.13</td>
<td>E-UTRAN FDD intra-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode A with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C88er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and additional PRS config or dense PRS config</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.14</td>
<td>E-UTRAN HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode A with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C89er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and additional PRS config or dense PRS config</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.15</td>
<td>E-UTRAN TDD intra-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode A with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C90er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and additional PRS config or dense PRS config</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.16</td>
<td>E-UTRAN FDD intra-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode B with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C91er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and additional PRS config or dense PRS config and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.3.17</td>
<td>E-UTRAN HD-FDD intra-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode B with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C92er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and additional PRS config or dense PRS config and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.3.18</td>
<td>E-UTRAN TDD intra-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode B with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C93er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and additional PRS config or dense PRS config and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.1.1</td>
<td>FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C54er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.1.2</td>
<td>FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C66er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.2.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C55er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.2.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C67er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.3.1</td>
<td>TDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C56er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.3.2</td>
<td>TDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C68er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.4.1</td>
<td>FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C57er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.4.2</td>
<td>FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C69er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.5.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C58er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.5.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C70er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.6.1</td>
<td>TDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C59er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.6.2</td>
<td>TDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C71er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.7.1</td>
<td>FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C54er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.7.2</td>
<td>FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C66er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.8.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C55er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.8.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C67er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.9.1</td>
<td>TDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C56er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.9.2</td>
<td>TDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode A for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C68er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.10.1</td>
<td>FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C57er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.10.2</td>
<td>FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C69er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.11.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C58er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.11.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C70er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.12.1</td>
<td>TDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M1</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C59er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.12.2</td>
<td>TDD inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy in CE Mode B for Category M2</td>
<td>Rel-13</td>
<td>C71er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, CE Mode B and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.13</td>
<td>E-UTRAN FDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode A with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C94er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, inter-frequency RSTD measurements and additional PRS config or dense PRS config</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.14</td>
<td>E-UTRAN HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode A with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C95er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, inter-frequency RSTD measurements and additional PRS config or dense PRS config</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.15</td>
<td>E-UTRAN TDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode A with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C96er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, inter-frequency RSTD measurements and additional PRS config or dense PRS config</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.16</td>
<td>E-UTRAN FDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode B with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C97er</td>
<td>All FDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, inter-frequency RSTD measurements and additional PRS config or dense PRS config and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.4.17</td>
<td>E-UTRAN HD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode B with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C98er</td>
<td>All HD-FDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, inter-frequency RSTD measurements and additional PRS config or dense PRS config and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.4.18</td>
<td>E-UTRAN TDD inter-frequency RSTD measurement period test case in CE Mode B with longer PRS occasions</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C99er</td>
<td>All TDD Category M1 or M2 UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA, inter-frequency RSTD measurements and additional PRS config or dense PRS config and CE Mode B</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.5.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD Intra frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy for NB-IOT Inband Mode in normal coverage</td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
<td>C75er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT HD-FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.5.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD Intra frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy for NB-IOT Inband Mode in enhanced coverage</td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
<td>C75er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT HD-FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.5.3</td>
<td>HD-FDD Intra frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for NB-IOT Standalone Mode in enhanced coverage</td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
<td>C75er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT HD-FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.6.1</td>
<td>HD-FDD Inter frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy for NB-IOT Inband Mode in normal coverage</td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
<td>C76er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT HD-FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.6.2</td>
<td>HD-FDD Inter frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy for NB-IOT Inband Mode in enhanced coverage</td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
<td>C76er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT HD-FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.6.3</td>
<td>HD-FDD Inter frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for NB-IOT Standalone Mode in enhanced coverage</td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
<td>C76er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT HD-FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-14</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.7.1</td>
<td>TDD Intra frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy for NB-IOT Inband Mode in normal coverage</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C86er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.7.2</td>
<td>TDD Intra frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy for NB-IOT Inband Mode in enhanced coverage</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C86er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.7.3</td>
<td>TDD Intra frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for NB-IOT Inband Mode in enhanced coverage</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C86er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.8.1</td>
<td>TDD Inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy for NB-IOT Inband Mode in normal coverage</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C87er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>9.8.2</td>
<td>TDD Inter-frequency RSTD Measurement Accuracy for NB-IOT Inband Mode in enhanced coverage</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C87er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>9.8.3</td>
<td>TDD Inter frequency RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for NB-IOT Inband Mode in enhanced coverage</td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
<td>C87er</td>
<td>All NB-IoT TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA and inter-frequency RSTD measurements</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>10</strong></td>
<td><strong>OTDOA measurement requirements for Carrier Aggregation</strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.1</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.1 or TC 10.1A or TC 10.1B or TC 10.1C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.1A</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.1 or TC 10.1A or TC 10.1B or TC 10.1C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.1B</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay Carrier Aggregation for 5 MHz +5 MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.1 or TC 10.1A or TC 10.1B or TC 10.1C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.1C</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for Carrier Aggregation for 10MHz+5MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.1 or TC 10.1A or TC 10.1B or TC 10.1C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.2</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.2 or TC 10.2A or TC 10.2B or TC 10.2C or TC 10.2D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.2A</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.2 or TC 10.2A or TC 10.2B or TC 10.2C or TC 10.2D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.2B</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for Carrier Aggregation for 5MHz +5 MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.2 or TC 10.2A or TC 10.2B or TC 10.2C or TC 10.2D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.2C</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for Carrier Aggregation for 10MHz+5MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.2 or TC 10.2A or TC 10.2B or TC 10.2C or TC 10.2D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.2D</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay for Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz +10MHz Bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Either TC 10.2 or TC 10.2A or TC 10.2B or TC 10.2C or TC 10.2D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.3</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.3 or TC 10.3A or TC 10.3A_1 or TC 10.3B or TC 10.3C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.3A</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz (Rel-10 and Rel-11)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.3 or TC 10.3A or TC 10.3A_1 or TC 10.3B or TC 10.3C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10, Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.3A_1</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz (Rel-12 onwards)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.3 or TC 10.3A or TC 10.3A_1 or TC 10.3B or TC 10.3C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.3B</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 5MHz +5 MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.3 or TC 10.3A or TC 10.3A_1 or TC 10.3B or TC 10.3C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.3C</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 10MHz+5MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C15er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.3 or TC 10.3A or TC 10.3A_1 or TC 10.3B or TC 10.3C shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.4</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.4 or TC 10.4A or TC 10.4A_1 or TC 10.4B or TC 10.4C or TC 10.4D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.4A</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz (Rel-10 and Rel-11)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.4 or TC 10.4A or TC 10.4A_1 or TC 10.4B or TC 10.4C or TC 10.4D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10, Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.4A_1</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz (Rel-12 onwards)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.4 or TC 10.4A or TC 10.4A_1 or TC 10.4B or TC 10.4C or TC 10.4D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.4B</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 5 MHz +5 MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.4 or TC 10.4A or TC 10.4A_1 or TC 10.4B or TC 10.4C or TC 10.4D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.4C</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 10MHz+5MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.4 or TC 10.4A or TC 10.4A_1 or TC 10.4B or TC 10.4C or TC 10.4D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-11</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.4D</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz+10MHz bandwidth</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C16er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td>Either TC 10.4 or TC 10.4A or TC 10.4A_1 or TC 10.4B or TC 10.4C or TC 10.4D shall be executed. (Note 2)</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.5</td>
<td>FDD 3 DL CA RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C27er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for 3DL Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.6</td>
<td>TDD 3 DL CA RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C28er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for 3DL Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>10.7</td>
<td>FDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for 3DL Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C27er</td>
<td>All FDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for 3DL Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eFDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10.8</td>
<td>TDD RSTD Measurement Accuracy for 3DL Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>Rel-10</td>
<td>C28er</td>
<td>All TDD UEs supporting UE-assisted OTDOA for 3DL Carrier Aggregation</td>
<td>pc_eTDD</td>
<td></td>
<td>2Rx, 4Rx</td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Note 1: This test case can be optionally tested for Rel-9 UEs supporting inter-frequency RSTD measurements that do not require measurement gaps.</p>
<p>Note 2: The Carrier Aggregation TCs verify the same core requirement(s) however with different channel bandwidth configurations, this according to the guidance in TS 37.571-1, Clause 4.7.5 [5].</p>
<p>Note 3: This test case can be optionally tested for E-UTRA Rel-9 and forward UEs with only 1Rx antenna.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 4-4: Applicability of tests Conditions for test cases in TS
37.571-1 \[5\] for E-UTRA

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  C01er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/6 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C02er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/7 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C03er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/9 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C04er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/8 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C05er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND A.4.3-2/36 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C06er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/6 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C07er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/7 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C08er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/9 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C09er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/8 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C10er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND A.4.3-2/36 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C11er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C12er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C13er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C14er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C15er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/15 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C16er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/15 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C17er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C18er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C19er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/18 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C20er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/38 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C21er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 AND A.4.4-2/1 AND \[11\] A.4.5-3a/15 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C22er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 AND A.4.4-2/1 AND A.4.4-2/2 AND \[11\] A.4.5-3a/15 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C23er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/18 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C24er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/38 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C25er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 AND \[11\] A.4.5-3a/15 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C26er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 AND \[11\] A.4.5-3a/15 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C27er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/19 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C28er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/19 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C29er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/37 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C30er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/37 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C31er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/20 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C32er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/39 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C33er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/39 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C34er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/6 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C35er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/7 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C36er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/9 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C37er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/8 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C38er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/36 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C39er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/37 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C40er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/18 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C41er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/38 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C42er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/21 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C43er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/22 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C44er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.1-3/1 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C45er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/1 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C46er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.1-3/1 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C47er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/1 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C48er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C49er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C50er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C51er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C52er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C53er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C54er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C55er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C56er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C57er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C58er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C59er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C60er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C61er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C62er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C63er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C64er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C65er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C66er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C67er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C68er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C69er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C70er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C71er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/3 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C72er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C73er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C74er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C75er IF A.4.1-1/5 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C76er IF A.4.1-1/5 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C77er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.1-3/1 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C78er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.1-3/1 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-4/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C79er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/40 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C80er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/41 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C81er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/40 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C82er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/41 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C83er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/40 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C84er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/41 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C85er IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2 AND NOT ((A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND NOT A.4.4-1/4)) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/39 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C86er IF A.4.1-1/5a AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C87er IF A.4.1-1/5a AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C88er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C89er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C90er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C91er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C92er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C93er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C94er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C95er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C96er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C97er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND NOT A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C98er IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.2-3/1 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C99er IF A.4.1-1/2 AND (A.4.1-3/2 OR A.4.1-3/3) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.4-1/3 AND (A.4.3-3A/5 OR A.4.3-3A/8) AND A.4.3-2/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 4-5: Applicability of tests and additional information for testing
for test cases in TS 37.571-2 \[6\] for UTRA

  -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
  **Clause**     **Title**                                                                                                               **Release**   **Applicability**   **Comments**                                                                                                                                                                        **Number of TC Executions (informative)**
  6.1.1.1        LCS Network Induced location request / UE-Based GPS / Emergency Call / with USIM                                        R99           C01us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only                                                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.1.1.2        LCS Network induced location request / UE-Based GPS / Emergency call / Without USIM                                     R99           C01us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only                                                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.1.1.3        LCS Network induced location request / UE-Assisted GPS / Emergency call / With USIM                                     R99           C03us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only                                                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.1.1.4        LCS Network induced location request / UE-Assisted GPS / Emergency call / Without USIM                                  R99           C03us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only                                                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.1.2.1        LCS Mobile originated location request / UE-Based GPS / Position estimate request / Success                             R99           C09us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.1.2.2        LCS Mobile originated location request UE-Based or UE-Assisted GPS / Assistance data request / Success                  R99           C05us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE based or UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only) and MO-LR request for assistance data                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.1.2.3        LCS Mobile originated location request / UE-Assisted GPS / Position Estimate / Success                                  R99           C10us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                       1 Execution: CS
  6.1.2.4        LCS Mobile originated location request / UE-Based GPS / Transfer to third party / Success                               R99           C07us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MO-LR request for transfer to 3rd party                                                                        1 Execution: CS
  6.1.2.5        LCS Mobile originated location request / UE-Assisted GPS / Transfer to third party / Success                            R99           C08us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MO-LR request for transfer to 3rd party                                                                     1 Execution: CS
  6.1.2.6        LCS Mobile originated location request / UE-Based or UE-Assisted GPS / Assistance data request / Failure                R99           C05us               UEs supporting FDD and (either UE based or UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only) and MO-LR request for assistance data                                                      1 Execution: CS
  6.1.2.7        LCS Mobile originated location request / UE-Based GPS / Position estimate request / Failure                             R99           C09us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MO-LR request for position estimate                                                                            1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.1        LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Based GPS                                                                   R99           C02us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.2        LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Based GPS / Request of additional assistance data / Success                 R99           C02us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.3        LCS Mobile-terminated location request / UE-Based GPS / Failure - Not Enough Satellites                                 R99           C02us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.4        LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Assisted GPS / Success                                                      R99           C04us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.5        LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Assisted GPS / Request for additional assistance data / Success             R99           C04us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.6        LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Based GPS / Privacy Verification / Location Allowed if No Response          R99           C02us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.7        LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Based GPS / Privacy Verification / Location Not Allowed if No Response      R99           C02us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.8        LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Assisted GPS / Privacy Verification / Location Allowed if No Response       R99           C04us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.9        LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Assisted GPS / Privacy Verification / Location Not Allowed if No Response   R99           C04us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.1.3.10       LCS Mobile terminated location request / UE-Based or UE-Assisted GPS / Configuration incomplete                         R99           C06us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based and/or UE assisted Network Assisted GPS L1 C/A only and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability, but not UE-based OTDOA                  1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.1\_1s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 1                                                                       Rel-8         C11us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with GLONASS only                                                                                     1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.1\_2s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 2                                                                       Rel-12        C12us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with Galileo only                                                                                     1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.1\_3s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 3                                                                       Rel-8         C13us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Modernized GPS only                                                                      1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.1\_4s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 4                                                                       Rel-8         C14us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with GLONASS only                                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.1\_8s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 8                                                                       Rel-12        C54us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Galileo only                                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.1\_9s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 9                                                                       Rel-12        C40us               UEs supporting -emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with BDS only                                                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.1\_10s   NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 10                                                                      Rel-12        C41us               UEs supporting emergency speech call and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with BDS only                                                                                      1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.2\_1s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 1                                                                    Rel-8         C15us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS with GLONASS only                                                                                  1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.2\_2s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 2                                                                    Rel-12        C16us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS with Galileo only                                                                                  1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.2\_3s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 3                                                                    Rel-8         C17us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Modernized GPS only                                                                   1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.2\_4s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 4                                                                    Rel-8         C18us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with GLONASS only                                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.2\_8s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 8                                                                    Rel-12        C55us               UEs supporting FDD, emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Galileo only                                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.2\_9s    NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 9                                                                    Rel-12        C42us               UEs supporting emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS with BDS only                                                                                           1 Execution: CS
  6.2.1.2\_10s   NI-LR Emergency Call: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 10                                                                   Rel-12        C43us               UEs supporting emergency speech call and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with BDS only                                                                                   1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.1\_1s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 1                                                                    Rel-8         C19us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                  1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.1\_2s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 2                                                                    Rel-12        C20us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with Galileo only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                  1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.1\_3s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 3                                                                    Rel-8         C21us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Modernized GPS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                   1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.1\_4s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 4                                                                    Rel-8         C22us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.1\_8s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 8                                                                    Rel-12        C56us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Galileo only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.1\_9s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 9                                                                    Rel-12        C44us               UEs supporting UE based Network Assisted GANSS with BDS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                              1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.1\_10s   MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS: Sub-test 10                                                                   Rel-12        C45us               UEs supporting UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with BDS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                      1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.2\_1s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 1                                                                 Rel-8         C23us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                               1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.2\_2s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 2                                                                 Rel-12        C24us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS with Galileo only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                               1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.2\_3s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 3                                                                 Rel-8         C25us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Modernized GPS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.2\_4s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 4                                                                 Rel-8         C26us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                       1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.2\_8s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 8                                                                 Rel-12        C57us               UEs supporting FDD and UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Galileo only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                       1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.2\_9s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 9                                                                 Rel-12        C46us               UEs supporting UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS with BDS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                           1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.2\_10s   MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Assisted A-GNSS: Sub-test 10                                                                Rel-12        C47us               UEs supporting UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with BDS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                   1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.3\_1s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 1                                    Rel-8         C19us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                  1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.3\_2s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 2                                    Rel-12        C20us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with Galileo only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                  1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.3\_3s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 3                                    Rel-8         C21us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Modernized GPS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                   1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.3\_4s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 4                                    Rel-8         C22us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.3\_8s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 8                                    Rel-12        C56us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Galileo only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.3\_9s    MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 9                                    Rel-12        C44us               UEs supporting UE based Network Assisted GANSS with BDS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                              1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.3\_10s   MO-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 10                                   Rel-12        C45us               UEs supporting UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with BDS only and MO-LR request for a position estimate                                                                      1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.4\_1s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Success: Sub-test 1                                             Rel-8         C27us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for assistance data                              1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.4\_2s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Success: Sub-test 2                                             Rel-12        C28us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with Galileo only and MO-LR request for assistance data                              1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.4\_3s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Success: Sub-test 3                                             Rel-8         C29us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with Modernized GPS only and MO-LR request for assistance data   1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.4\_4s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Success: Sub-test 4                                             Rel-8         C30us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for assistance data          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.4\_8s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Success: Sub-test 8                                             Rel-12        C58us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with Galileo only and MO-LR request for assistance data          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.4\_9s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Success: Sub-test 9                                             Rel-12        C48us               UEs supporting (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with BDS only and MO-LR request for assistance data                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.4\_10s   MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Success: Sub-test 10                                            Rel-12        C49us               UEs supporting ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with BDS only and MO-LR request for assistance data                      1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.5\_1s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Failure: Sub-test 1                                             Rel-8         C27us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for assistance data                              1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.5\_2s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Failure: Sub-test 2                                             Rel-12        C28us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with Galileo only and MO-LR request for assistance data                              1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.5\_3s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Failure: Sub-test 3                                             Rel-8         C29us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with Modernized GPS only and MO-LR request for assistance data   1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.5\_4s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Failure: Sub-test 4                                             Rel-8         C30us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with GLONASS only and MO-LR request for assistance data          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.5\_8s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Failure: Sub-test 8                                             Rel-12        C58us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with Galileo only and MO-LR request for assistance data          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.5\_9s    MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Failure: Sub-test 9                                             Rel-12        C48us               UEs supporting (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with BDS only and MO-LR request for assistance data                                          1 Execution: CS
  6.2.2.5\_10s   MO-LR Assistance Data: UE-Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Failure: Sub-test 10                                            Rel-12        C49us               UEs supporting ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with BDS only and MO-LR request for assistance data                      1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.1\_1s    MT-LR UE Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Request for additional assistance data/Success: Sub-test 1                       Rel-8         C35us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with GLONASS only                                                                    1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.1\_2s    MT-LR UE Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Request for additional assistance data/Success: Sub-test 2                       Rel-12        C36us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with Galileo only                                                                    1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.1\_3s    MT-LR UE Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Request for additional assistance data/Success: Sub-test 3                       Rel-8         C37us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with Modernized GPS only                                         1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.1\_4s    MT-LR UE Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Request for additional assistance data/Success: Sub-test 4                       Rel-8         C38us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with GLONASS only                                                1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.1\_8s    MT-LR UE Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Request for additional assistance data/Success: Sub-test 8                       Rel-12        C59us               UEs supporting FDD and ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with Galileo only                                                1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.1\_9s    MT-LR UE Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Request for additional assistance data/Success: Sub-test 9                       Rel-12        C52us               UEs supporting (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) with BDS only                                                                                1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.1\_10s   MT-LR UE Based or UE-Assisted A-GNSS - Request for additional assistance data/Success: Sub-test 10                      Rel-12        C53us               UEs supporting ((UE assisted Network Assisted GPS and GANSS) or (UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS)) with BDS only                                                            1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.2\_1s    MT-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 1                                    Rel-8         C31us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with GLONASS only                                                                                                            1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.2\_2s    MT-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 2                                    Rel-12        C32us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GANSS with Galileo only                                                                                                            1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.2\_3s    MT-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 3                                    Rel-8         C33us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Modernized GPS only                                                                                             1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.2\_4s    MT-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 4                                    Rel-8         C34us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with GLONASS only                                                                                                    1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.2\_8s    MT-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 8                                    Rel-12        C60us               UEs supporting FDD and UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with Galileo only                                                                                                    1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.2\_9s    MT-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 9                                    Rel-12        C50us               UEs supporting UE based Network Assisted GANSS with BDS only                                                                                                                        1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.2\_10s   MT-LR Position Estimate: UE-Based A-GNSS - Failure Not Enough Satellites: Sub-test 10                                   Rel-12        C51us               UEs supporting UE based Network Assisted GPS and GANSS with BDS only                                                                                                                1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.3        Location Notification                                                                                                   Rel-8         C39us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                               1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.4        Privacy Verification - Location Allowed if No Response                                                                  Rel-8         C39us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                               1 Execution: CS
  6.2.3.5        Privacy Verification - Location Not Allowed if No Response                                                              Rel-8         C39us               UEs supporting FDD and (UE assisted Network Assisted GANSS or UE based Network Assisted GANSS) and MT-LR LCS location request notification capability                               1 Execution: CS
  -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------

Table 4-6: Applicability of tests Conditions for test cases in TS
37.571-2 \[6\] for UTRA

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  C01us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.1-2/1 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C02us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-3/8 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C03us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.1-2/1 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C04us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-3/8 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C05us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/11) AND A.4.3-3/5 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C06us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/11) AND A.4.3-3/8 AND (NOT A.4.3-1/3) AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C07us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-3/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C08us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-3/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C09us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C10us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C11us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C12us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C13us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/8 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C14us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C15us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C16us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C17us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/8 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C18us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C19us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C20us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C21us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/8 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C22us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C23us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C24us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C25us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/8 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C26us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C27us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/7 AND A.4.3-3/5 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C28us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/9 AND A.4.3-3/5 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C29us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND ((A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/10) OR (A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/11)) AND A.4.3-1/9 AND A.4.3-3/5 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C30us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND ((A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/10) OR (A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/11)) AND A.4.3-1/7 AND A.4.3-3/5 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C31us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C32us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C33us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/8 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C34us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C35us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C36us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C37us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND ((A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/10) OR (A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/11)) AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C38us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND ((A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/10) OR (A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/11)) AND A.4.3-1/7 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C39us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-3/8 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C40us IF A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C41us IF A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C42us IF A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C43us IF A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C44us IF A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C45us IF A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C46us IF A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C47us IF A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C48us IF (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/13 AND A.4.3-3/5 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C49us IF ((A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/10) OR (A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/11)) AND A.4.3-1/13 AND A.4.3-3/5 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C50us IF A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C51us IF A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/13 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C52us IF (A.4.3-1/5 OR A.4.3-1/6) AND A.4.3-1/13 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/11 OR A.4.3-1/10 OR A.4.3-1/8 OR A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C53us IF ((A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/10) OR (A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/11)) AND A.4.3-1/13 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/9 OR A.4.3-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C54us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C55us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C56us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/10 AND A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C57us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND A.4.3-3/6 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C58us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND ((A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/10) OR (A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/11)) AND A.4.3-1/9 AND A.4.3-3/5 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C59us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND ((A.4.3-1/5 AND A.4.3-1/10) OR (A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/11)) AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C60us IF A.4.1-1/3 AND A.4.3-1/11 AND A.4.3-1/6 AND A.4.3-1/9 AND NOT (A.4.3-1/7 OR A.4.3-1/13) THEN R ELSE N/A
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 4-7: Applicability of tests and additional information for testing
for test cases in TS 37.571-2 \[6\] for E-UTRA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| C     | TC    | Re    | App   |       | Addit |       |       |       |
| lause | Title | lease | licab |       | ional |       |       |       |
|       |       | of    | ility |       | I     |       |       |       |
|       |       | LPP   |       |       | nform |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | Cond  | Co    | Spe   | Spe   | N     | Re    |
|       |       |       | ition | mment | cific | cific | umber | lease |
|       |       |       |       |       | ICS   | IXIT  | of TC | RAT   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Execu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | **NAS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.1** | Pro   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tocol |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ocedu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | res** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.1.1 | UE    | Rel-9 | C11es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | Ne    |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | twork |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Capab |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ility |       |       | LPP   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |  {#s  |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       | ectio |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
|       | n-14} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | **LCS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.2** | Pr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ocedu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | res** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Loc   | Rel-9 | C14es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.1.1 | ation |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | No    |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | tific |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | EPC-  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MT-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | No    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tific |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Pr    | Rel-9 | C14es | All   | pc\   | px    |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.1.2 | ivacy |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD | \_UeL |       |       |
|       | Ve    |       |       | suppo |       | csNot |       |       |
|       | rific |       |       | rting |       | ifica |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | EPC-  |       | tion: |       |       |
|       | --    |       |       | MT-LR |       | value |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | Loc   |       | for   |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | ation |       | UE    |       |       |
|       | Al    |       |       | No    |       | LCS   |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       | tific |       | No    |       |       |
|       | if no |       |       | ation |       | tific |       |       |
|       | Res   |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       | ponse |       |       |       |       | ti    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | meout |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer. |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Pr    | Rel-9 | C14es | All   | pc\   | px    |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.1.3 | ivacy |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD | \_UeL |       |       |
|       | Ve    |       |       | suppo |       | csNot |       |       |
|       | rific |       |       | rting |       | ifica |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | EPC-  |       | tion: |       |       |
|       | --    |       |       | MT-LR |       | value |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | Loc   |       | for   |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | ation |       | UE    |       |       |
|       | not   |       |       | No    |       | LCS   |       |       |
|       | Al    |       |       | tific |       | No    |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       | ation |       | tific |       |       |
|       | if No |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       | Res   |       |       |       |       | ti    |       |       |
|       | ponse |       |       |       |       | meout |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer. |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ###   | ###   |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|   {#s |   {#s |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
| ectio | ectio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n-15} | n-16} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_1s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_2s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_3s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_4s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_8s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_9s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2.2.1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_10s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Auton | Rel-9 | C64es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.1 | omous | ^(2)^ |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_15s | Self  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loca  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-b  |       |       | Based |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | ^(1)^ |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 15    |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | data. |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Auton | R     | C69es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.1 | omous | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_16s | Self  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loca  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-b  |       |       | Based |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | 16 UE |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       | assis |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | data  |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Auton | R     | C75es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.1 | omous | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_17s | Self  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loca  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-b  |       |       | Based |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | 17 UE |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       | assis |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | data  |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Auton | R     | C71es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.1 | omous | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_18s | Self  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loca  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-b  |       |       | Based |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 18 UE |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | S     |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ensor |       |       | assis |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | data  |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_1s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_2s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_3s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_4s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Basic | Rel-9 | C09es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .2.2. | Self  |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 2\_5s | Loca  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | OTDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2.  | Basic | Rel-9 | C10es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2\_ | Self  |       |       | FDD   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 6FDDs | Loca  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | ECID  |       |       |       |       |
|       | 6     |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (FDD) |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.2.  | Basic | R     | C56es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2\_ | Self  | el-13 |       | TDD   | _eTDD |       |       |       |
| 6TDDs | Loca  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | ECID  |       |       |       |       |
|       | 6     |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (TDD) |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_8s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_9s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2.2.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_10s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Basic | R     | C58es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.2 | Self  | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_11s | Loca  | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | **UE  |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-13 |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       | on    |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
|       | ly)** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **    | R     | C53es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| *7.2. | Basic | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 2.2\_ | Self  | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
| 12s** | Loca  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12 UE |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-13 |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       | on    |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
|       | ly)** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Basic | R     | C60es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.2 | Self  | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_13s | Loca  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | Blue  |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | tooth |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | Pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Basic | R     | C62es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.2 | Self  | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_14s | Loca  | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       | 14    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | **UE  |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | S     |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ensor |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-13 |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       | on    |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
|       | ly)** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Basic | Rel-9 | C65es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 2.2.2 | Self  | ^(2)^ |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_15s | Loca  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | ^(1)^ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 15    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **    | R     | C53es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| *7.2. | Basic | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 2.2\_ | Self  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
| 16s** | Loca  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | 16 UE |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onwar |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
|       | ds)** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **    | R     | C58es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| *7.2. | Basic | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 2.2\_ | Self  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
| 17s** | Loca  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | 17 UE |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onwar |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
|       | ds)** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **    | R     | C62es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| *7.2. | Basic | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 2.2\_ | Self  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
| 18s** | Loca  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion: |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 18 UE |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       | S     |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ensor |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onwar |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
|       | ds)** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | **LPP |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.3** | Pr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ocedu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | res** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Pos   | Rel-9 | C11es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.1.1 | ition |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | Capab |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ility |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tra   |       |       | LPP   |       |       |       |       |
|       | nsfer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | LPP   | Rel-9 | C11es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.2.1 | Dupli |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | cated |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Me    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssage |       |       | LPP   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | LPP   | Rel-9 | C11es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.2.2 | Ackn  |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | owled |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | gment |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | LPP   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | LPP   | Rel-9 | C36es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.2.3 | Retr  |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ansmi |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssion |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | LPP   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | se    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nding |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ackno |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | wledg |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ement |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | quest |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | LPP   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Pr    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ovide |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Ca    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pabil |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ities |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mes   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | sage. |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.3.1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3   | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.1A |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3   | LPP   | Rel-9 | C54es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3.1B | Requ  | ^(2)^ |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
|       | ested |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ethod |       |       | at    |       |       |       |       |
|       | not   |       |       | least |       |       |       |       |
|       | Supp  |       |       | one   |       |       |       |       |
|       | orted |       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |
|       | -     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | U     |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | E-Ass |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | isted |       |       | GNSS^ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1)^, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | O     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | TDOA, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | or    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ECID  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | or    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | or    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | or    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Blue  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tooth |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | or    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | but   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | all   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | them  |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_1s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_2s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_3s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_4s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_8s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_9s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.4.1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_10s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | Rel-9 | C66es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.1 | -SMLC | ^(2)^ |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_15s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       | ^(1)^ |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-B  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 15    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C70es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.1 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_16s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-B  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 16 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C77es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.1 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_17s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-B  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 17 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C73es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.1 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_18s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-B  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 18 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | S     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ensor |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_1s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ###   | ###   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|   {#s |   {#s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ectio | ectio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n-17} | n-18} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_2s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_3s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_4s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | E     | Rel-9 | C26es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3.4. | -SMLC |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 2\_5s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       | OTDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3.  | E     | Rel-9 | C27es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 4.2\_ | -SMLC |       |       | FDD   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 6FDDs | Init  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       | ECID  |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (FDD) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.3.  | E     | R     | C57es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 4.2\_ | -SMLC | el-13 |       | TDD   | _eTDD |       |       |       |
| 6TDDs | Init  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       | ECID  |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (TDD) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | E     | Rel-9 | C21es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3.4. | -SMLC |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 2\_7s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | OTDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 7     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_8s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2\_9s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.4.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_10s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C59es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.2 | -SMLC | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_11s | Init  | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-13 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C55es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.2 | -SMLC | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_12s | Init  | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-13 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C61es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.2 | -SMLC | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_13s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       | Blue  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | tooth |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C63es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.2 | -SMLC | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_14s | Init  | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 14 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | S     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ensor |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-13 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | Rel-9 | C67es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.2 | -SMLC | ^(2)^ |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_15s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Assis |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Data  |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | Del   |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivery |       |       | ^(1)^ |       |       |       |       |
|       | fol   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | lowed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 15    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C55es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.2 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_16s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 16 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C59es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.2 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_17s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 17 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C63es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.2 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_18s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Loc   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | I     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | nform |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       | Tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 18 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | S     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ensor |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3\_1s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3\_2s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3\_3s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3\_4s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3\_8s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3\_9s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.4.3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_10s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | Rel-9 | C66es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.3 | -SMLC | ^(2)^ |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_15s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | ^(1)^ |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-B  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 15    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C70es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.3 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_16s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-B  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 16 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C77es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.3 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_17s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-B  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 17 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C73es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.3 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_18s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE-B  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ased: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 18 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | S     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ensor |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4\_1s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4\_2s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4\_3s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4\_4s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | E     | Rel-9 | C26es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3.4. | -SMLC |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 4\_5s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | OTDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | E     | Rel-9 | C21es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3.4. | -SMLC |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 4\_7s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       | OTDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 7     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4\_8s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.4. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4\_9s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.4.4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_10s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | Rel-9 | C67es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.4 | -SMLC | ^(2)^ |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_15s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | ^(1)^ |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 15    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C55es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.4 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_16s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 16 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C59es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.4 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_17s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 17 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C63es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.4.4 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_18s | Init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pos   |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ition |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | S     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | ensor |       |       |       |       |
|       | wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | data: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -assi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sted: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 18 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | S     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ensor |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.5. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_1s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.5. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_2s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.5. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_3s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.5. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_4s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | E     | Rel-9 | C26es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| .3.5. | -SMLC |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 1\_5s | init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | bort: |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | OTDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.5. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_8s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7     | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3.5. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1\_9s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.5.1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_10s |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C59es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.5.1 | -SMLC | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_11s | init  | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | bort: |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-13 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C55es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.5.1 | -SMLC | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_12s | init  | only  |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | bort: |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-13 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | only) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C61es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.5.1 | -SMLC | el-13 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_13s | init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | bort: |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | Blue  |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | tooth |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | Rel-9 | C68es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.5.1 | -SMLC | ^(2)^ |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_15s | init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | UE-   |       |       |       |       |
|       | bort: |       |       | based |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | or    |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | 15    |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GNSS  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ^(1)^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C55es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.5.1 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_16s | init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | bort: |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 16 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 7.    | E     | R     | C59es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| 3.5.1 | -SMLC | el-14 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| \_17s | init  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | iated |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | bort: |       |       | E-ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Su    |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | btest |       |       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |
|       | 17 UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | WLAN  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | **Ci  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.4** | rcuit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Swi   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tched |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (CS)  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fallb |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ack** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | CS    | Rel-9 | C12es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| *7.4. | fall  |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 1.1** | back: |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Ne    |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | twork |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | does  |       |       | proc  |       |       |       |       |
|       | not   |       |       | edure |       |       |       |       |
|       | su    |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       | pport |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       | EPC-  |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       | MO-LR |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | fal   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lback |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | EPS.  |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | CS    | Rel-9 | C13es | All   | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
| *7.4. | fall  |       |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       |       |
| 1.2** | back: |       |       | not   |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | does  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | not   |       |       | EPC-  |       |       |       |       |
|       | su    |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       | pport |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | EPC-  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | MO-LR |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MO-LR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | proc  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | edure |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | loc   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | est   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | imate |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | fal   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lback |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | EPS.  |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | Rel-9 |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | **RRC |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.5** | Pro   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tocol |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Pr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ocedu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | res** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **7.  | Inter | R     | C37es | All   | pc\   |       |       | R     |
| 5.1** | -Freq | el-10 |       | UEs   | _eFDD |       |       | el-10 |
|       | uency |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | RSTD  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | m     |       |       | inter |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | -freq |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | uency |       |       |       |       |
|       | indic |       |       | RSTD  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | me    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | asure |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ments |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | OTDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | that  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | re    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | quire |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | m     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | easur |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ement |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | gaps. |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | pc\   |       |       | R     |
|       |       |       |       |       | _eTDD |       |       | el-10 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **7.  | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.2\_ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 23s** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **7.  | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.2\_ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 24s** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **7.  | Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.2\_ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 25s** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| GNSS  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ombin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| GPS,  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| GLO   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NASS, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Gal   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ileo, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| BDS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| supp  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| orted |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2: If |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| GNSS  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ombin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| supp  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| orted |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| inc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ludes |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ga    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lileo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nd/or |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| BDS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| then  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| R     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| el-12 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| LPP   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| req   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uired |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 4-8: Applicability of tests Conditions for test cases in TS
37.571-2 \[6\] for E-UTRA

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C01es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C02es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C05es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C06es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C07es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C08es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C09es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-3/2 THEN |
| > R ELSE N/A                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C10es IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-3/2 THEN R ELSE N/A     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C11es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.2-1/1 THEN R ELSE N/A    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C12es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND (A.4.1-1/3 OR A.4.1-1/4) AND |
| > A.4.3-3/4 THEN R ELSE N/A                                          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C13es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND (A.4.1-1/3 OR A.4.1-1/4) AND |
| > A.4.3-3/4 AND NOT (A.4.3-3/1 AND A.4.3-3/2) THEN R ELSE N/A        |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C14es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-3/3 THEN R ELSE N/A    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C15es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C16es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C17es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C18es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C19es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C20es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C21es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN |
| > R ELSE N/A                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C22es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C23es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C24es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C25es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C26es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/4 THEN R ELSE N/A    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C27es IF A.4.1-1/1 AND A.4.3-2/5 THEN R ELSE N/A                   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C28es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C29es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C30es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C31es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C32es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C33es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C34es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C35es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C36es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.2-1/1 AND A.4.4-1/1 THEN |
| > R ELSE N/A                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C37es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/16 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C38es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C39es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C40es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C41es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C42es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C43es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C44es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C45es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C46es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C47es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C48es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C49es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C50es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C51es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C52es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C53es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/20     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C54es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND (A.4.3-2/2 OR A.4.3-2/4 OR   |
| > A.4.3-2/5 OR A.4.3-2/20 OR A.4.3-2/21 OR A.4.3-2/22 OR A.4.3-2/23) |
| > AND NOT (A.4.3-2/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-2/20 AND  |
| > A.4.3-2/21 AND A.4.3-2/22 AND A.4.3-2/23) THEN R ELSE N/A          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C55es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/20 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C56es IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-3/2 THEN R ELSE N/A     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C57es IF A.4.1-1/2 AND A.4.3-2/5 THEN R ELSE N/A                   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C58es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/21     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C59es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/21 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C60es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/22     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C61es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/22 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C62es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-3/2 AND A.4.3-2/23     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C63es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/23 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C64es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/1 AND A.4.3-3/1 THEN |
| > R ELSE N/A                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C65es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/2 AND A.4.3-3/2 THEN |
| > R ELSE N/A                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C66es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/1 THEN R ELSE N/A    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C67es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/2 THEN R ELSE N/A    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C68es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2)     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C69es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/26 AND A.4.3-3/1     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C70es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/26 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C71es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/28 AND A.4.3-3/1     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C72es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C73es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/28 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C74es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C75es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/27 AND A.4.3-3/1     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C76es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C77es IF (A.4.1-1/1 OR A.4.1-1/2) AND A.4.3-2/27 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C78es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C79es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C80es Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Table 4-9: Applicability of tests and additional information for testing
for test cases in TS 37.571-2 \[6\] for NR

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Clause   | TC Title | Release  | Appli    |          |          |
|          |          | of LPP   | cability |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          |          |          | C        | Comm     | Release  |
|          |          |          | ondition | ent^(4)^ | RAT      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.3**  | **LPP    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Proc     |          |          |          |          |
|          | edures** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| *        | **LPP    |          |          |          |          |
| *9.3.1** | Common   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Proc     |          |          |          |          |
|          | edures** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.1.1  | Position | Rel-9    | C01ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
|          | Ca       |          |          | su       |          |
|          | pability |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Transfer |          |          | LPP      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3      | LPP      | Rel-15   | C02ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| .1.2\_5s | Abort:   |          |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 5        |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | OT       |          |
|          |          |          |          | DOA^(6)^ |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Rel-13   | C06ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 1.2\_11s | Abort:   | only     |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 11       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | WLAN     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Rel-13   | C05ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 1.2\_12s | Abort:   | only     |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 12       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | MBS      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Rel-13   | C03ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 1.2\_13s | Abort:   |          |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 13       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | B        |          |
|          |          |          |          | luetooth |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Re       | C04ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 1.2\_15s | Abort:   | l-9^(2)^ |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 15       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          |          |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Rel-14   | C05ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 1.2\_16s | Abort:   |          |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 16       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | MBS      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Rel-14   | C06ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 1.2\_17s | Abort:   |          |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 17       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | WLAN     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Rel-16   | C19ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 1.2\_19s | Abort:   |          |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 19       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | M        |          |
|          |          |          |          | ulti-RTT |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Rel-16   | C20ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 1.2\_20s | Abort:   |          |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 20       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | LPP      | Rel-16   | C21ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 1.2\_21s | Abort:   |          |          | su       |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | 21       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| *        | **LPP    |          |          |          |          |
| *9.3.2** | Tra      |          |          |          |          |
|          | nsport** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.2.1  | LPP      | Rel-9    | C01ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
|          | Du       |          |          | su       |          |
|          | plicated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Message  |          |          | LPP      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.2.2  | LPP      | Rel-9    | C01ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
|          | Acknowl  |          |          | su       |          |
|          | edgement |          |          | pporting |          |
|          |          |          |          | LPP      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.2.3  | LPP      | Rel-9    | C07ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
|          | Retran   |          |          | su       |          |
|          | smission |          |          | pporting |          |
|          |          |          |          | LPP and  |          |
|          |          |          |          | the      |          |
|          |          |          |          | sending  |          |
|          |          |          |          | of       |          |
|          |          |          |          | acknowl  |          |
|          |          |          |          | edgement |          |
|          |          |          |          | request  |          |
|          |          |          |          | in LPP   |          |
|          |          |          |          | Provide  |          |
|          |          |          |          | Capa     |          |
|          |          |          |          | bilities |          |
|          |          |          |          | message  |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| *        | **LPP    |          |          |          |          |
| *9.3.3** | Error    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Ha       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ndling** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.3.1  | Void     |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.3.1A | Void     |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.3.1B | LPP      | Rel-9^(  | C08ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
|          | R        | 2)\ (5)^ |          | su       |          |
|          | equested |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Method   |          |          | at least |          |
|          | not      |          |          | one of   |          |
|          | S        |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | upported |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | -        |          |          | GN       |          |
|          | UE-      |          |          | SS^(1)^, |          |
|          | Assisted |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | OTD      |          |
|          |          |          |          | OA^(6)^, |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | ECID or  |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | WLAN or  |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | MBS or   |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | B        |          |
|          |          |          |          | luetooth |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | M        |          |
|          |          |          |          | ulti-RTT |          |
|          |          |          |          | or       |          |
|          |          |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          |          |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          |          |          |          | NR E-CID |          |
|          |          |          |          | but not  |          |
|          |          |          |          | all of   |          |
|          |          |          |          | them     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| *        | **LPP    |          |          |          |          |
| *9.3.4** | Pos      |          |          |          |          |
|          | itioning |          |          |          |          |
|          | Proc     |          |          |          |          |
|          | edures** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Re       | C10ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.1\_15s | I        | l-9^(2)^ |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 15       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C11ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.1\_16s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | MBS      |          |
|          | Data     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 16       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C12ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.1\_17s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | WLAN     |          |
|          | Data     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 17       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C13ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.1\_18s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          | Data     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 18       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C22ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.1\_20s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
|          | Data     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C23ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.1\_21s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
|          | Data     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 21       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3      | E-SMLC   | Rel-15   | C02ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| .4.2\_5s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | OT       |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          | DOA^(6)^ |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 5        |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3      | E-SMLC   | Rel-9    | C15ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| .4.2\_6s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | ECID     |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3      | E-SMLC   | Rel-15   | C16ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| .4.2\_7s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | GNSS and |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          | OT       |          |
|          | followed |          |          | DOA^(6)^ |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 7        |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-13   | C06ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.2\_11s | I        | only     |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | WLAN     |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 11       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-13   | C05ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.2\_12s | I        | only     |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | MBS      |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 12       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-13   | C03ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.2\_13s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | B        |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          | luetooth |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 13       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-13   | C09ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.2\_14s | I        | only     |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 14       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Re       | C14ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.2\_15s | I        | l-9^(2)^ |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 15       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C05ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.2\_16s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | MBS      |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 16       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C06ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.2\_17s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | WLAN     |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 17       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C09ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.2\_18s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 18       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C19ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.2\_19s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | M        |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          | ulti-RTT |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 19       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C24ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.2\_20s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C25ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.2\_21s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 21       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C26ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.2\_22s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | As       |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | Data     |          |          | NR E-CID |          |
|          | Delivery |          |          |          |          |
|          | followed |          |          |          |          |
|          | by       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Location |          |          |          |          |
|          | Inf      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormation |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 22       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Re       | C10ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.3\_15s | I        | l-9^(2)^ |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          | surement |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 15       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C11ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.3\_16s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | MBS      |          |
|          | surement |          |          |          |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 16       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C12ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.3\_17s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | WLAN     |          |
|          | surement |          |          |          |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 17       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C13ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.3\_18s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          | surement |          |          |          |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 18       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C22ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.3\_20s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
|          | surement |          |          |          |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C23ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.3\_21s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
|          | surement |          |          |          |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | U        |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-Based: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 21       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3      | E-SMLC   | Rel-15   | C02ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| .4.4\_5s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | OT       |          |
|          | without  |          |          | DOA^(6)^ |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 5        |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3      | E-SMLC   | Rel-15   | C16ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| .4.4\_7s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          | without  |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
|          | As       |          |          | and      |          |
|          | sistance |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          | assisted |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          | OT       |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          | DOA^(6)^ |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 7        |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Re       | C14ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.4\_15s | I        | l-9^(2)^ |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          | without  |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 15       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C05ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.4\_16s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | MBS      |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 16       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C06ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.4\_17s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | WLAN     |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 17       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-14   | C09ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 4.4\_18s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 18       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C19ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.4\_19s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | M        |          |
|          | without  |          |          | ulti-RTT |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 19       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C24ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.4\_20s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9.3.     | E-SMLC   | Rel-16   | C25ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 4.4\_21s | I        |          |          | su       |          |
|          | nitiated |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | Position |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | Mea      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | surement |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
|          | without  |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
|          | Data:    |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-A     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ssisted: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 21       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4**  | **RRC    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Protocol |          |          |          |          |
|          | Proc     |          |          |          |          |
|          | edures** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-16   | C20ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 1\_20s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
|          | t        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-16   | C21ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 1\_21s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
|          | t        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 21       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-16   | C27ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 1\_23s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | MBS      |          |
|          | t        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 23       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-16   | C28ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 1\_24s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          | t        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 24       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-15   | C04ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 1\_25s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          | t        |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
|          | ransfer: |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 25       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-16   | C20ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 2\_20s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
|          | transfer |          |          |          |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | Pos      |          |          |          |          |
|          | itioning |          |          |          |          |
|          | SI       |          |          |          |          |
|          | messages |          |          |          |          |
|          | offset:  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-16   | C21ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 2\_21s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
|          | transfer |          |          |          |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | Pos      |          |          |          |          |
|          | itioning |          |          |          |          |
|          | SI       |          |          |          |          |
|          | messages |          |          |          |          |
|          | offset:  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 21       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-16   | C27ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 2\_23s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | MBS      |          |
|          | transfer |          |          |          |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | Pos      |          |          |          |          |
|          | itioning |          |          |          |          |
|          | SI       |          |          |          |          |
|          | messages |          |          |          |          |
|          | offset:  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 23       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-16   | C28ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 2\_24s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          | transfer |          |          |          |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | Pos      |          |          |          |          |
|          | itioning |          |          |          |          |
|          | SI       |          |          |          |          |
|          | messages |          |          |          |          |
|          | offset:  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 24       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | PosSIB   | Rel-15   | C04ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 2\_25s** | broa     |          |          | su       |          |
|          | dcasting |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          | transfer |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | Pos      |          |          |          |          |
|          | itioning |          |          |          |          |
|          | SI       |          |          |          |          |
|          | messages |          |          |          |          |
|          | offset:  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 25       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | O        | Rel-16   | C20ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 3\_20s** | n-demand |          |          | su       |          |
|          | PosSIB   |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | DL-AoD   |          |
|          | transfer |          |          |          |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | RRC\_c   |          |          |          |          |
|          | onnected |          |          |          |          |
|          | state:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | O        | Rel-16   | C21ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 3\_21s** | n-demand |          |          | su       |          |
|          | PosSIB   |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | DL-TDOA  |          |
|          | transfer |          |          |          |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | RRC\_c   |          |          |          |          |
|          | onnected |          |          |          |          |
|          | state:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 21       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | O        | Rel-16   | C27ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 3\_23s** | n-demand |          |          | su       |          |
|          | PosSIB   |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | MBS      |          |
|          | transfer |          |          |          |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | RRC\_c   |          |          |          |          |
|          | onnected |          |          |          |          |
|          | state:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 23       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | O        | Rel-16   | C28ns    | All UEs  | Rel-16   |
| 3\_24s** | n-demand |          |          | su       |          |
|          | PosSIB   |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | Sensor   |          |
|          | transfer |          |          |          |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | RRC\_c   |          |          |          |          |
|          | onnected |          |          |          |          |
|          | state:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 24       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **9.4.   | O        | Rel-15   | C04ns    | All UEs  | Rel-15   |
| 3\_25s** | n-demand |          |          | su       |          |
|          | PosSIB   |          |          | pporting |          |
|          | followed |          |          | UE-Based |          |
|          | by       |          |          | or       |          |
|          | location |          |          | UE-      |          |
|          | inf      |          |          | Assisted |          |
|          | ormation |          |          | A-G      |          |
|          | transfer |          |          | NSS^(1)^ |          |
|          | /        |          |          |          |          |
|          | RRC\_c   |          |          |          |          |
|          | onnected |          |          |          |          |
|          | state:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Subtest  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 25       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| The GNSS |          |          |          |          |          |
| com      |          |          |          |          |          |
| bination |          |          |          |          |          |
| of GPS,  |          |          |          |          |          |
| GLONASS, |          |          |          |          |          |
| Galileo, |          |          |          |          |          |
| BDS      |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| upported |          |          |          |          |          |
| by the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE       |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| If the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| GNSS     |          |          |          |          |          |
| com      |          |          |          |          |          |
| bination |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| upported |          |          |          |          |          |
| by the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE       |          |          |          |          |          |
| includes |          |          |          |          |          |
| Galileo  |          |          |          |          |          |
| and/or   |          |          |          |          |          |
| BDS then |          |          |          |          |          |
| Rel-12   |          |          |          |          |          |
| of LPP   |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| required |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Void     |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 4:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| The      |          |          |          |          |          |
| required |          |          |          |          |          |
| support  |          |          |          |          |          |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |
| RAN-CN   |          |          |          |          |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| nterface |          |          |          |          |          |
| Options  |          |          |          |          |          |
| is given |          |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |          |          |          |          |          |
| 4-10.    |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 5:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| If the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE-      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Assisted |          |          |          |          |          |
| DL-TDOA  |          |          |          |          |          |
| or       |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE-      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Assisted |          |          |          |          |          |
| DL-AoD   |          |          |          |          |          |
| or       |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE-      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Assisted |          |          |          |          |          |
| M        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ulti-RTT |          |          |          |          |          |
| or       |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE-      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Assisted |          |          |          |          |          |
| NR E-CID |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| upported |          |          |          |          |          |
| by the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE then  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Rel-16   |          |          |          |          |          |
| LPP is   |          |          |          |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| equired. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 6:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| For UEs  |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| NG-RAN   |          |          |          |          |          |
| NR       |          |          |          |          |          |
| (Option  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2)       |          |          |          |          |          |
| support  |          |          |          |          |          |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |
| i        |          |          |          |          |          |
| nter-RAT |          |          |          |          |          |
| RSTD for |          |          |          |          |          |
| EUTRA    |          |          |          |          |          |
| meas     |          |          |          |          |          |
| urements |          |          |          |          |          |
| is also  |          |          |          |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| equired. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 4-10: Applicability of tests Conditions for test cases in TS
37.571-2 \[6\] for NR

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C01ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.2-1/1 THEN R ELSE N/A    |
+======================================================================+
| > C02ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-3A/18) OR (A.4.1-4/4   |
| > AND A.4.3-2/4) THEN R ELSE N/A                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C03ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/22 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C04ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2)     |
| > THEN R ELSE N/A                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C05ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/20 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C06ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/21 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C07ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.2-1/1 AND A.4.4-1/1 THEN |
| > R ELSE N/A                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C08ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/2 OR (A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-3A/18)  |
| > OR A.4.3-2/20 OR A.4.3-2/21 OR A.4.3-2/22 OR A.4.3-2/23 OR         |
| > A.4.3-2/29 OR A.4.3-2/30 OR A.4.3-2/32 OR A.4.3-2/34) AND NOT      |
| > (A.4.3-2/2 AND (A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-3A/18) AND A.4.3-2/20 AND      |
| > A.4.3-2/21 AND A.4.3-2/22 AND A.4.3-2/23 AND A.4.3-2/29 AND        |
| > A.4.3-2/30 AND A.4.3-2/32 AND A.4.3-2/34)) OR (A.4.1-4/4 AND       |
| > (A.4.3-2/2 OR A.4.3-2/4 OR A.4.3-2/5 OR A.4.3-2/20 OR A.4.3-2/21   |
| > OR A.4.3-2/22 OR A.4.3-2/23) AND NOT (A.4.3-2/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND  |
| > A.4.3-2/5 AND A.4.3-2/20 AND A.4.3-2/21 AND A.4.3-2/22 AND         |
| > A.4.3-2/23)) THEN R ELSE N/A                                       |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C09ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/23 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C10ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/1 THEN R ELSE N/A    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C11ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/26 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C12ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/27 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C13ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/28 THEN R ELSE N/A   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C14ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/4) AND A.4.3-2/2 THEN R ELSE N/A    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C15ns IF A.4.1-4/4 AND A.4.3-2/5 THEN R ELSE N/A                   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C16ns IF (A.4.1-4/1 AND A.4.3-2/2 AND A.4.3-2/4 AND A.4.3-3A/18)   |
| > OR (A.4.1-4/4 AND A.4.3-2/2 AND A.4.3-2/4) THEN R ELSE N/A         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C17ns Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C18ns Void                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C19ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND A.4.3-2/29 THEN R ELSE N/A                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C20ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/30 OR A.4.3-2/31) THEN R ELSE N/A  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C21ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/32 OR A.4.3-2/33) THEN R ELSE N/A  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C22ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND A.4.3-2/31 THEN R ELSE N/A                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C23ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND A.4.3-2/33 THEN R ELSE N/A                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C24ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND A.4.3-2/30 THEN R ELSE N/A                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C25ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND A.4.3-2/32 THEN R ELSE N/A                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C26ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND A.4.3-2/34 THEN R ELSE N/A                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C27ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/20 OR A.4.3-2/26) THEN R ELSE N/A  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| > C28ns IF A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/23 OR A.4.3-2/28) THEN R ELSE N/A  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Editor's Note: The required support of RAN-CN Interface Options NE-DC
and NGEN-DC in this Table requires further study.

Table 4-11: Applicability of tests and additional information for
testing for test cases in TS 37.571-1 \[5\] for NR

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| C     | TC    | Re    | App   |       | Addit |       |       |       |
| lause | Title | lease | licab |       | ional |       |       |       |
|       |       | of    | ility |       | I     |       |       |       |
|       |       | LPP   |       |       | nform |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | Cond  | Co    | Spe   | Spe   | N     | Re    |
|       |       |       | ition | mment | cific | cific | umber | lease |
|       |       |       |       |       | ICS   | IXIT  | of TC | RAT   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Execu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11    | **NR  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | requ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ireme |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nts** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.1B | MBS   | R     | C45nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       | M     | el-13 |       | NR    |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Repo  |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | rting |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Delay |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | (NR)  |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.2B | MBS   | R     | C45nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       | S     | el-13 |       | NR    |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ensit |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (NR)  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.3B | MBS   | R     | C45nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       | No    | el-13 |       | NR    |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | minal |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | (NR)  |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.4B | MBS   | R     | C45nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       | Dy    | el-13 |       | NR    |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | namic |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Range |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | M     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (NR)  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 11.5B | MBS   | R     | C45nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       | M     | el-13 |       | NR    |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | Acc   |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | U     |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       | E-Ass |       |       |       |       |
|       | Mult  |       |       | isted |       |       |       |       |
|       | ipath |       |       | MBS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (NR)  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | **A   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | -GNSS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | erfor |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | requ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ireme |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nts** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | Rel-9 | C01nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.1-1 | ensit |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | Rel-9 | C02nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.1-2 | ensit |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | R     | C03nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.1-3 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | Rel-9 | C04nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.1-4 | ensit |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | Rel-9 | C05nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.1-5 | ensit |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | R     | C15nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.1-8 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | R     | C11nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.1-9 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.2  | S     | R     | C12nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .1-10 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.2  | S     | R     | C17nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .1-11 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.2  | S     | R     | C27nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .1-12 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.2  | S     | R     | C28nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .1-13 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | oarse |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | Rel-9 | C06nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.2-1 | ensit |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1C/A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C34nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1C/A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | Rel-9 | C07nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.2-2 | ensit |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C35nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | R     | C08nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.2-3 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Gal |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ileo, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C36nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Gal |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ileo, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | Rel-9 | C09nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.2-4 | ensit |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS,  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C37nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS,  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | Rel-9 | C10nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.2-5 | ensit |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C38nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | R     | C16nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.2-8 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Gal |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ileo, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C39nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Gal |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ileo, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.   | S     | R     | C13nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 2.2-9 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C40nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.2  | S     | R     | C14nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .2-10 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C41nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.2  | S     | R     | C18nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .2-11 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C42nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.2  | S     | R     | C29nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .2-12 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C43nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GLO |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NASS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13.2  | S     | R     | C30nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .2-13 | ensit | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | ivity |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | Fine  |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Time  |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       | A     |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssist |       |       | E     |       |       |       |       |
|       | ance: |       |       | N-DC. |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | R     | C44nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
|       |       | el-15 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       |       |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | suppo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | G-RAN |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | NR.   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -BDS, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Fine  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Time  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Assis |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tance |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | No    | Rel-9 | C01nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.3-1 | minal |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | No    | Rel-9 | C02nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.3-2 | minal |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | No    | R     | C03nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.3-3 | minal | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | No    | Rel-9 | C04nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.3-4 | minal |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | No    | Rel-9 | C05nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.3-5 | minal |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | No    | R     | C15nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.3-8 | minal | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | No    | R     | C11nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.3-9 | minal | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | No    | R     | C12nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .3-10 | minal | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | No    | R     | C17nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .3-11 | minal | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | No    | R     | C27nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .3-12 | minal | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | No    | R     | C28nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .3-13 | minal | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | Accu  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | racy: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Dy    | Rel-9 | C01nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.4-1 | namic |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Dy    | Rel-9 | C02nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.4-2 | namic |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Dy    | R     | C03nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.4-3 | namic | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Dy    | Rel-9 | C04nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.4-4 | namic |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Dy    | Rel-9 | C05nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.4-5 | namic |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Dy    | R     | C15nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.4-8 | namic | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Dy    | R     | C11nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.4-9 | namic | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | Dy    | R     | C12nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .4-10 | namic | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | Dy    | R     | C17nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .4-11 | namic | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | Dy    | R     | C27nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .4-12 | namic | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | Dy    | R     | C28nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .4-13 | namic | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | R     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ange: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Multi | Rel-9 | C01nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.5-1 | -path |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Multi | Rel-9 | C02nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.5-2 | -path |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Multi | R     | C03nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.5-3 | -path | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Multi | Rel-9 | C04nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.5-4 | -path |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Multi | Rel-9 | C05nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.5-5 | -path |       |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Multi | R     | C15nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.5-8 | -path | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | Multi | R     | C11nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.5-9 | -path | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | Multi | R     | C12nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .5-10 | -path | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | Multi | R     | C17nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .5-11 | -path | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | Multi | R     | C27nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .5-12 | -path | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | Multi | R     | C28nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .5-13 | -path | el-12 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | scen  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | ario: |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C01nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.6-1 | oving | el-9, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | Re    |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | l‑10, |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   | Re    |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   | l‑11, |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic | Re    |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    | l‑12, |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: | R     |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   | el‑13 |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C02nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.6-2 | oving | el-9, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | Re    |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | l‑10, |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   | Re    |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   | l‑11, |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic | Re    |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    | l‑12, |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: | R     |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   | el‑13 |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | Re    | C03nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.6-3 | oving | l-12, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | R     |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el‑13 |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C04nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.6-4 | oving | el-9, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | Re    |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | l‑10, |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   | Re    |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   | l‑11, |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic | Re    |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    | l‑12, |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: | R     |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   | el‑13 |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C05nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.6-5 | oving | el-9, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | Re    |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | l‑10, |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   | Re    |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   | l‑11, |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic | Re    |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    | l‑12, |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: | R     |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   | el‑13 |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | Re    | C15nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.6-8 | oving | l-12, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | R     |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el‑13 |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | Re    | C11nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.6-9 | oving | l-12, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | R     |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el‑13 |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | M     | Re    | C12nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .6-10 | oving | l-12, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | R     |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el‑13 |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | M     | Rel   | C17nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| *13.6 | oving | -12,R |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
| -11** | sce   | el‑13 |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | M     | Re    | C27nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .6-12 | oving | l-12, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | R     |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el-13 |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | M     | Re    | C28nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .6-13 | oving | l-12, |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   | R     |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario | el-13 |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rel-9 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | Re    |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       | l-13) |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C19nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.7-1 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | L1C/A |       |       |       |       |
|       | 1     |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C20nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.7-2 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2     |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C21nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.7-3 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3     |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C22nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.7-4 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-GPS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C23nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.7-5 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C24nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.7-8 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 8     |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | M     | R     | C25nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 3.7-9 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | 9     |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | M     | R     | C26nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .7.10 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 10    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | M     | R     | C33nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .7.11 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 11    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | M     | R     | C31nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .7-12 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 12    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-GL  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ONASS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 13    | M     | R     | C32nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| .7-13 | oving | el-14 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-15 |
|       | sce   |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | nario |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | per   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | up    |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | date: |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | Sub   |       |       | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       | -Test |       |       | -GPS/ |       |       |       |       |
|       | 13    |       |       | Moder |       |       |       |       |
|       | (R    |       |       | nized |       |       |       |       |
|       | el-14 |       |       | GPS   |       |       |       |       |
|       | onw   |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       | ards) |       |       | A-Ga  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | lileo |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A-BDS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | perio |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | dical |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repo  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 14    | **NR  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | RSTD  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | requ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ireme |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nts** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | NR    | R     | C48nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 4.2.1 | RSTD  | el-16 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | eriod |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | DL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       | -TDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | NR    | R     | C48nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 4.2.2 | RSTD  | el-16 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | eriod |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | DL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | dual  |       |       | -TDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ayers |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | NR    | R     | C49nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 4.2.3 | RSTD  | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | eriod |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | DL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       | -TDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | NR    | R     | C49nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 4.2.4 | RSTD  | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | eriod |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | DL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | dual  |       |       | -TDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ayers |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | NR    | R     | C48nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 4.3.1 | RSTD  | el-16 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | acc   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | DL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       | -TDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | NR    | R     | C48nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 4.3.2 | RSTD  | el-16 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | acc   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | DL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | dual  |       |       | -TDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | NR    | R     | C49nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 4.3.3 | RSTD  | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | acc   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | DL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       | -TDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | NR    | R     | C49nr | All   |       |       |       | R     |
| 4.3.4 | RSTD  | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |       |
|       | acc   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | DL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | dual  |       |       | -TDOA |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 15    | **UE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Rx-Tx |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | time  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | diffe |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | requ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ireme |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nts** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | UE    | R     | C46nr | All   |       |       |       | Rel-1 |
| 5.2.1 | Rx-Tx | el-16 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | 6 {#r |
|       | time  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | el-16 |
|       | diffe |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | rence |       |       | The   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | m     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | easur |       |       | shall |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | eriod |       |       | Mult  |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | i-RTT |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | UE    | R     | C46nr | All   |       |       |       | Re    |
| 5.2.2 | Rx-Tx | el-16 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | l-16  |
|       | time  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | {#rel |
|       | diffe |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       | -16-1 |
|       | rence |       |       | The   |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | m     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | easur |       |       | shall |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | ement |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | eriod |       |       | Mult  |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | i-RTT |       |       |       |       |
|       | dual  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | UE    | R     | C47nr | All   |       |       |       | Re    |
| 5.2.3 | Rx-Tx | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | l-16  |
|       | time  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | {#rel |
|       | diffe |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       | -16-2 |
|       | rence |       |       | The   |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | m     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | easur |       |       | shall |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | ement |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | eriod |       |       | Mult  |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | i-RTT |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | UE    | R     | C47nr | All   |       |       |       | Re    |
| 5.2.4 | Rx-Tx | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | l-16  |
|       | time  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | {#rel |
|       | diffe |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       | -16-3 |
|       | rence |       |       | The   |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | m     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | easur |       |       | shall |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | ement |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | eriod |       |       | Mult  |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | i-RTT |       |       |       |       |
|       | dual  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | UE    | R     | C46nr | All   |       |       |       | Re    |
| 5.3.1 | Rx-Tx | el-16 |       | FR1   |       |       |       | l-16  |
|       | time  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | {#rel |
|       | diffe |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       | -16-4 |
|       | rence |       |       | The   |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | m     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | easur |       |       | shall |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | ement |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | acc   |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | Mult  |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | i-RTT |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | UE    | R     | C47nr | All   |       |       |       | Re    |
| 5.3.2 | Rx-Tx | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | l-16  |
|       | time  |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | {#rel |
|       | diffe |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       | -16-5 |
|       | rence |       |       | The   |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | m     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | easur |       |       | shall |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | ement |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | acc   |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | uracy |       |       | Mult  |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | i-RTT |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ayers |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 16    | **NR  |       |       |       |       |       |       |  {#   |
|       | PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       | secti |
|       | -RSRP |       |       |       |       |       |       | on-19 |
|       | m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | requ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ireme |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nts** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | PRS   | R     | C50nr | All   |       |       |       | Re    |
| 6.2.3 | -RSRP | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | l-16  |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | {#rel |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       | -16-6 |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | p     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | eriod |       |       | shall |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | D     |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       | L-AoD |       |       |       |       |
|       | ingle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | PRS   | R     | C50nr | All   |       |       |       | Re    |
| 6.2.4 | -RSRP | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | l-16  |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | {#rel |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       | -16-7 |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | p     |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | eriod |       |       | shall |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | test  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | case  |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       | D     |       |       |       |       |
|       | dual  |       |       | L-AoD |       |       |       |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | PRS   | R     | C50nr | All   |       |       |       | Re    |
| 6.3.2 | -RSRP | el-16 |       | FR2   |       |       |       | l-16  |
|       | m     |       |       | NR    |       |       |       | {#rel |
|       | easur |       |       | UEs.  |       |       |       | -16-8 |
|       | ement |       |       | The   |       |       |       |  .TT} |
|       | acc   |       |       | UEs   |       |       |       | =     |
|       | uracy |       |       | shall |       |       |       | ===== |
|       | with  |       |       | su    |       |       |       |       |
|       | PRS   |       |       | pport |       |       |       |       |
|       | in    |       |       | D     |       |       |       |       |
|       | FR2   |       |       | L-AoD |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: If |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ignal |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| type  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| BDS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| supp  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| orted |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| inc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ludes |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| B1C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| then  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| R     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| el-16 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| LPP   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| requ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ired. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 4-12: Applicability of tests Conditions for RAT-independent test
cases in TS 37.571-1 \[5\] for NR

  C01nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/6 THEN R ELSE N/A
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  C02nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/7 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C03nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/9 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C04nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/8 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C05nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/36 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C06nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/6 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C07nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/7 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C08nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/9 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C09nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/8 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C10nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/36 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C11nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/18 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C12nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/38 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C13nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/18 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C14nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/38 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C15nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/37 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C16nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/37 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C17nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/39 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C18nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/39 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C19nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/6 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C20nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/7 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C21nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/9 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C22nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/8 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C23nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/36 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C24nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/37 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C25nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/18 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C26nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/38 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C27nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/40 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C28nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/41 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C29nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/40 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C30nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/2 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/41 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C31nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/40 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C32nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/41 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C33nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.1-4/1 OR A.4.1-4/2) AND ((A.4.3-2/1 AND NOT A.4.3-2/24) OR (A.4.3-2/2 AND NOT A.4.3-2/25)) AND A.4.3-2/39 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C34nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/6 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C35nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/7 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C36nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/9 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C37nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/8 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C38nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/36 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C39nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/37 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C40nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/18 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C41nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/38 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C42nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/39 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C43nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/40 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C44nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.1-4/1 AND (A.4.3-2/1 OR A.4.3-2/2) AND A.4.3-2/41 AND A.4.3-2/3 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C45nr IF A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.3-2/20 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C46nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND A.4.3-2/29 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C47nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/2) AND A.4.3-2/29 THEN R ELSE N/A
  C48nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.3-2/32 OR A.4.3-2/33) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C49nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/2) AND (A.4.3-2/32 OR A.4.3-2/33) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C50nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/2) AND (A.4.3-2/30 OR A.4.3-2/31) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C51nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/1) AND (A.4.3-2/32 OR A.4.3-2/33) THEN R ELSE N/A
  C52nr IF (A.4.1-1/6 AND A.4.1-5/2) AND (A.4.3-2/32 OR A.4.3-2/33) THEN R ELSE N/A

######## Annex A (normative): ICS proforma for User Equipment

Notwithstanding the provisions of the copyright clause related to the
text of the present document, The Organizational Partners of 3GPP grant
that users of the present document may freely reproduce the ICS proforma
in this annex so that it can be used for its intended purposes and may
further publish the completed ICS.

A.1 Guidance for completing the ICS proforma
--------------------------------------------

### A.1.1 Purposes and structure

The purpose of this ICS proforma is to provide a mechanism whereby a
supplier of an implementation of the requirements defined in relevant
specifications may provide information about the implementation in a
standardised manner.

The ICS proforma is subdivided into clauses for the following categories
of information:

\- instructions for completing the ICS proforma;

\- identification of the implementation;

\- identification of the protocol;

\- ICS proforma tables (for example: UE implementation types,
Teleservices, etc).

### A.1.2 Abbreviations and conventions

The ICS proforma contained in this annex is comprised of information in
tabular form in accordance with the guidelines presented in
ISO/IEC 9646‑7 \[8\].

##### Item column {#item-column .H6}

The item column contains a number which identifies the item in the
table.

##### Item description column {#item-description-column .H6}

The item description column describes in free text each respective item
(e.g. parameters, timers, etc.). It implicitly means \"is \<item
description\> supported by the implementation?\".

##### Reference column {#reference-column .H6}

The reference column gives reference to the relevant 3GPP core
specifications.

##### Release column {#release-column .H6}

The release column indicates the earliest release from which the
capability or option is relevant.

##### Mnemonic column {#mnemonic-column .H6}

The Mnemonic column contains mnemonic identifiers for each item.

##### Comments column {#comments-column .H6}

This column is left blank for particular use by the reader of the
present document.

##### References to items {#references-to-items .H6}

For each possible item answer (answer in the support column) within the
ICS proforma there exists a unique reference, used, for example, in the
conditional expressions. It is defined as the table identifier, followed
by a solidus character \"/\", followed by the item number in the table.
If there is more than one support column in a table, the columns shall
be discriminated by letters (a, b, etc.), respectively.

### A.1.3 Instructions for completing the ICS proforma

The supplier of the implementation may complete the ICS proforma in each
of the spaces provided. More detailed instructions are given at the
beginning of the different clauses of the ICS proforma.

A.2 Identification of the User Equipment
----------------------------------------

Identification of the User Equipment should be filled in so as to
provide as much detail as possible regarding version numbers and
configuration options.

The product supplier information and client information should both be
filled in if they are different.

A person who can answer queries regarding information supplied in the
ICS should be named as the contact person.

### A.2.1 Date of the statement

### A.2.2 User Equipment Under Test (UEUT) identification

UEUT name:

Hardware configuration:

Software configuration:

### A.2.3 Product supplier

Name:

Address:

Telephone number:

Facsimile number:

E-mail address:

Additional information:

### A.2.4 Client

Name:

Address:

Telephone number:

Facsimile number:

E-mail address:

Additional information:

### A.2.5 ICS contact person

Name:

Telephone number:

Facsimile number:

E-mail address:

Additional information:

A.3 Identification of the protocol
----------------------------------

This ICS proforma applies to the 3GPP standards listed in the normative
references clause of the present document.

A.4 ICS proforma tables
-----------------------

### A.4.1 UE Implementation Types

Table A.4.1-1: UE Radio Technologies

  ------ ----------------------- ---------- --------- -------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Item   UE Radio Technologies   Ref.       Release   Mnemonic       Comments
  1      E-UTRA FDD              36.101     Rel-8     pc\_eFDD       Refer to 3GPP TS 36.523-2 \[11\] Table A.4.1-1/1
  2      E-UTRA TDD              36.101     Rel-8     pc\_eTDD       Refer to 3GPP TS 36.523-2 \[11\] Table A.4.1-1/2
  3      UTRA FDD                25.101     R99       pc\_FDD        Refer to 3GPP TS 34.123-2 \[12\] Table A.1/1
  4      UTRA TDD                25.102     Rel-4     pc\_TDD\_LCR   Refer to 3GPP TS 34.123-2 \[12\] Table A.1/3
  5      NB-IoT FDD              36.101     Rel-13    pc\_NB\_FDD    Refer to 3GPP TS 36.523-2 \[11\] Table A.4.1-1/8
  5a     NB-IoT TDD              36.101     Rel-15    pc\_NB\_TDD    Refer to 3GPP TS 36.523-2 \[11\] Table A.4.1-1/9
  6      NR                      38.101-1   Rel-15    pc\_nr         
  ------ ----------------------- ---------- --------- -------------- --------------------------------------------------

Table A.4.1-2: Teleservices

  Item   Teleservices     Ref.            Release   Mnemonic          Comments
  ------ ---------------- --------------- --------- ----------------- ----------------------------------------------
  1      Emergency call   22.105, 6.4.2   R99       pc\_EmergSpeech   Refer to 3GPP TS 34.123-2 \[12\] Table A.2/2

Table A.4.1-3: UE Categories

  Item   UE Category     Ref.     Release   Mnemonic   Comments
  ------ --------------- -------- --------- ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1      Category 1bis   36.306   Rel-13               UE with DL Category 1bis and UL Category 1bis as defined in TS 36.306 \[13\] Table 4.1A-1 and 4.1A-2
  2      Category M1     36.306   Rel-13               UE with DL Category M1 and UL Category M1 as defined in TS 36.306 \[13\] Table 4.1A-1 and 4.1A-2
  3      Category M2     36.306   Rel-13               UE with DL Category M2 and UL Category M2 as defined in TS 36.306 \[13\] Table 4.1A-1 and 4.1A-2
  4      Category NB1    36.306   Rel-13               UE with DL Category NB1 and UL Category NB1 as defined in TS 36.306 \[13\] Table 4.1C-1 and 4.1C-2
  5      Category NB2    36.306   Rel-13               UE with DL Category NB2 and UL Category NB2 as defined in TS 36.306 \[13\] Table 4.1C-1 and 4.1C-2

Table A.4.1-4: RAN-CN Interface Options

  Item   UE support of RAN-CN Interface Options   Ref.     Release   Mnemonic             Comments
  ------ ---------------------------------------- -------- --------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  1      NG-RAN NR (Option 2)                     38.300   Rel-15    pc\_NG\_RAN\_NR      Refer to 3GPP TS 38.508-2 \[16\] Table A.4.1-3/1
  2      EN-DC (Option 3)                         37.340   Rel-15    pc\_EN\_DC           Refer to 3GPP TS 38.508-2 \[16\] Table A.4.1-3/2
  3      NE-DC (Option 4)                         37.340   Rel-15    pc\_NE\_DC           Refer to 3GPP TS 38.508-2 \[16\] Table A.4.1-3/3
  4      NG-RAN E-UTRA (Option 5)                 38.300   Rel-15    pc\_NG\_RAN\_EUTRA   Refer to 3GPP TS 38.508-2 \[16\] Table A.4.1-3/4
  5      NGEN-DC (Option 7)                       37.340   Rel-15    pc\_NGEN\_DC         Refer to 3GPP TS 38.508-2 \[16\] Table A.4.1-3/5

Table A.4.1-5: NR FR support

  ------ --------------------- --------------- --------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Item   NR FR support         Ref.            Release   Mnemonic      Comments
  1      Frequency range FR1   38.101-1, 5.1   Rel-15    pc\_nr\_FR1   Refer to 3GPP TS 38.508-2 \[16\] Table A.4.1-2/7
  2      Frequency range FR2   38.101-2, 5.2   Rel-15    pc\_nr\_FR2   Refer to 3GPP TS 38.508-2 \[16\] Table A.4.1-2/8
  ------ --------------------- --------------- --------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------

### A.4.2 Baseline Implementation Capabilities

Table A.4.2-1: Supported Protocols

  ------ --------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- --------------- ----------
  Item   Special Conformance Testing Functions   Ref.               Release   Mnemonic        Comments
  1      LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)          36.355             Rel-9     pc\_LPP         
  2      Support for OMA LPPe                    OMA-TS-LPPe-V1.0   Rel-9     pc\_OMA\_LPPe   
  ------ --------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- --------------- ----------

Table A.4.2-2: Special Conformance Testing Functions

  ---------- -------------------------------------------- ---------- ------------- --------------
  **Item**   **Special Conformance Testing Functions**    **Ref.**   **Release**   **Comments**
  1          Reset of UE Positioning Stored Information   36.509     Rel-9         E-UTRA
  2          Reset of UE Positioning Stored Information   34.109     R99           UTRA
  3          Reset of UE Positioning Stored Information   38.509     Rel-15        NR
  ---------- -------------------------------------------- ---------- ------------- --------------

Table A.4.2-3: Additional Capabilities

  ---------- --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Item**   **Special Conformance Testing Functions**     **Ref.**                      **Release**   **Comments**
  1          Support of Type B Half-duplex FDD operation   36.211, 6,2,5 36.306, 4.2.6   Rel-12        Support of Half-duplex FDD operation type B for category 0 and category M1 UE
  ---------- --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### A.4.3 UE Positioning Capabilities

Table A.4.3-1: UTRA UE positioning capabilities

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Item** | **UTRA   | **Ref.** | **R      | **Mn     | **Co     |
|          | UE       |          | elease** | emonic** | mments** |
|          | pos      |          |          |          |          |
|          | itioning |          |          |          |          |
|          | capabi   |          |          |          |          |
|          | lities** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1        | Support  | 25.306,  | R99      | pc\_     |          |
|          | for IPDL | 4.8      |          | UE\_Posi |          |
|          |          |          |          | tioningI |          |
|          |          |          |          | PDL\_Sup |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2        | Support  | 25.306,  | R99      | pc\_U    |          |
|          | of GPS   | 4.8      |          | E\_Posit |          |
|          | timing   |          |          | ioningGP |          |
|          | of cell  |          |          | S\_Timin |          |
|          | frames   |          |          | gOfCellF |          |
|          |          |          |          | ramesSup |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | Support  | 25.306,  | R99      | pc       |          |
|          | of       | 4.8      |          | \_UE\_Po |          |
|          | UE-based |          |          | sitionin |          |
|          | OTDOA    |          |          | gBasedOT |          |
|          |          |          |          | DOA\_Sup |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 4        | Support  | 25.306,  | R99      | pc       |          |
|          | of       | 4.8      |          | \_UE\_Po |          |
|          | St       |          |          | sitionin |          |
|          | andalone |          |          | gStandal |          |
|          | location |          |          | oneLocMe |          |
|          | method   |          |          | thodsSup |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5        | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-8    | p        | NOTE 1   |
|          | of       | 4.8      |          | c\_UEB\_ |          |
|          | UE-Based |          |          | A\_GANSS |          |
|          | A-GANSS  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6        | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-8    | p        | NOTE 1   |
|          | of       | 4.8      |          | c\_UEA\_ |          |
|          | UE-      |          |          | A\_GANSS |          |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          |          |
|          | A-GANSS  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 7        | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-8    | pc\      |          |
|          | for      | 4.8      |          | _GLONASS |          |
|          | GLONASS  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 8        | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-8    | pc\_MGPS |          |
|          | for      | 4.8      |          |          |          |
|          | Mo       |          |          |          |          |
|          | dernized |          |          |          |          |
|          | GPS      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9        | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-12   | pc\      | NOTE 2   |
|          | for      | 4.8      |          | _GALILEO |          |
|          | Galileo  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10       | Support  | 25.306,  | R99      | pc\_UeB  |          |
|          | of UE    | 4.8      |          | asedAgps |          |
|          | based    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Network  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          |          |
|          | GPS L1   |          |          |          |          |
|          | C/A      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 11       | Support  | 25.306,  | R99      | pc       |          |
|          | of UE    | 4.8      |          | \_UeAssi |          |
|          | assisted |          |          | stedAgps |          |
|          | Network  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          |          |
|          | GPS L1   |          |          |          |          |
|          | C/A      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 12       | Support  | 25.171,  | Rel-6    |          |          |
|          | of Fine  | 4.4      |          |          |          |
|          | Time     |          |          |          |          |
|          | As       |          |          |          |          |
|          | sistance |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 13       | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-12   | pc\_BDS  |          |
|          | for BDS  | 4.8      |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 14       | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-8    | pc\_     |          |
|          | for GPS  | 4.8      |          | GPS+MGPS |          |
|          | L1 C/A   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | Mo       |          |          |          |          |
|          | dernized |          |          |          |          |
|          | GPS      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 15       | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-8    | pc\_GPS  |          |
|          | for GPS  | 4.8      |          | +GLONASS |          |
|          | L1 C/A   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | GLONASS  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 16       | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-12   | pc\_GPS  | NOTE 2   |
|          | for GPS  | 4.8      |          | +GALILEO |          |
|          | L1 C/A   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | Galileo  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 17       | Support  | 25.306,  | Rel-12   | pc\      |          |
|          | for GPS  | 4.8      |          | _GPS+BDS |          |
|          | L1 C/A   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and BDS  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| If the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| ca       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pability |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| upported |          |          |          |          |          |
| by the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE, then |          |          |          |          |          |
| at least |          |          |          |          |          |
| one of   |          |          |          |          |          |
| A.       |          |          |          |          |          |
| 4.3-1/7, |          |          |          |          |          |
| A.       |          |          |          |          |          |
| 4.3-1/8, |          |          |          |          |          |
| A        |          |          |          |          |          |
| .4.3-1/9 |          |          |          |          |          |
| or       |          |          |          |          |          |
| A.       |          |          |          |          |          |
| 4.3-1/13 |          |          |          |          |          |
| must be  |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| upported |          |          |          |          |          |
| as well. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Non-b    |          |          |          |          |          |
| ackwards |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| mpatible |          |          |          |          |          |
| changes  |          |          |          |          |          |
| were     |          |          |          |          |          |
| made to  |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Galileo  |          |          |          |          |          |
| As       |          |          |          |          |          |
| sistance |          |          |          |          |          |
| Data in  |          |          |          |          |          |
| RRC      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Rel-12,  |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| herefore |          |          |          |          |          |
| testing  |          |          |          |          |          |
| cannot   |          |          |          |          |          |
| be done  |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| earlier  |          |          |          |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| eleases. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table A.4.3-2: E-UTRA and NR UE Positioning Capabilities

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Item     | E-UTRA   | Ref.     | Release  | Mnemonic | Comments |
|          | and NR   |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE       |          |          |          |          |
|          | Pos      |          |          |          |          |
|          | itioning |          |          |          |          |
|          | Capa     |          |          |          |          |
|          | bilities |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1        | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc\_UE   | This     |
|          | of UE    |          |          | B\_AGNSS | implies  |
|          | based    |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assis    |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | ted-GNSS |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2        | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc\_UE   | This     |
|          | of UE    |          |          | A\_AGNSS | implies  |
|          | assisted |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assis    |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | ted-GNSS |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | Support  | 36.355,  | Rel-9    | pc\_G    | This     |
|          | of GNSS  | 37.355   | (E-UTRA  | NSS\_FTA | implies  |
|          | Fine     |          | and NR   |          | support  |
|          | Time     |          | EN-DC)   |          | of LPP   |
|          | As       |          | Rel-15   |          | A        |
|          | sistance |          | (NR      |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          |          |          | NG-RAN   |          |          |
|          |          |          | NR)      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 4        | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | p        | This     |
|          | of UE    |          |          | c\_OTDOA | implies  |
|          | assisted |          |          |          | support  |
|          | OTDOA    |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5        | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc\_ECID | This     |
|          | of UE    |          | (FDD)    |          | implies  |
|          | assisted |          | Rel-13   |          | support  |
|          | ECID     |          | (TDD)    |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          | (NOTE 2) |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6        | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc       | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | \_A\_GPS | implies  |
|          | A-GPS    |          |          | \_L1C\_A | support  |
|          | L1C/A    |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 7        | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc\_A\   | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | _GLONASS | implies  |
|          | A        |          |          |          | support  |
|          | -GLONASS |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 8        | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc\_A\_G | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | PS\_L1C\ | implies  |
|          | A-GPS    |          |          | _A\_MGPS | support  |
|          | L1C/A    |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | and      |          |          |          | A        |
|          | Mo       |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | dernized |          |          |          |          |
|          | GPS      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 9        | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-12   | pc\_A\   | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | _Galileo | implies  |
|          | A        |          |          |          | support  |
|          | -Galileo |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          |          |          |          |          | (NOTE 1) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10       | Support  | 36.355,  | Rel-9    | pc       | This     |
|          | of UE    | 37.355   | (E-UTRA  | \_GNSS\_ | implies  |
|          | Fine     |          | and NR   | FTA\_UEB | support  |
|          | Time     |          | EN-DC)   |          | of LPP   |
|          | As       |          | Rel-15   |          | A        |
|          | sistance |          | (NR      |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | meas     |          | NG-RAN   |          |          |
|          | urements |          | NR)      |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-based |          |          |          |          |
|          | Assis    |          |          |          |          |
|          | ted-GNSS |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 11       | Support  | 36.355,  | Rel-9    | pc       | This     |
|          | of UE    | 37.355   | (E-UTRA  | \_GNSS\_ | implies  |
|          | Fine     |          | and NR   | FTA\_UEA | support  |
|          | Time     |          | EN-DC)   |          | of LPP   |
|          | As       |          | Rel-15   |          | A        |
|          | sistance |          | (NR      |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | meas     |          | NG-RAN   |          |          |
|          | urements |          | NR)      |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE-      |          |          |          |          |
|          | assisted |          |          |          |          |
|          | Assis    |          |          |          |          |
|          | ted-GNSS |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 12       | Support  | 36.355;  | Rel-9    | pc\_     | This     |
|          | of GNSS  | 3        |          | GNSS\_AA | implies  |
|          | Acq      | 7.571-2, |          |          | support  |
|          | uisition | 5.4.1    |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | As       |          |          |          | A        |
|          | sistance |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 13       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc\      |          |
|          | for      |          |          | _A\_SBAS |          |
|          | A-SBAS   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 14       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc\      |          |
|          | for      |          |          | _A\_QZSS |          |
|          | A-QZSS   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 15       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-10   | pc\_O    | This     |
|          | of UE    |          |          | TDOA\_CA | implies  |
|          | assisted |          |          |          | support  |
|          | OTDOA    |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | for      |          |          |          | A        |
|          | Carrier  |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | Agg      |          |          |          |          |
|          | regation |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 16       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-10   | pc\_I    | This     |
|          | of       |          |          | nterFreq | implies  |
|          | inter-f  |          |          | \_RSTD\_ | support  |
|          | requency |          |          | withGaps | of UE    |
|          | RSTD     |          |          |          | assisted |
|          | meas     |          |          |          | OTDOA    |
|          | urements |          |          |          | A        |
|          | that     |          |          |          | .4.3-2/4 |
|          | require  |          |          |          |          |
|          | mea      |          |          |          |          |
|          | surement |          |          |          |          |
|          | gaps     |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 17       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-10   | pc\      | This     |
|          | of       |          |          | _InterFr | implies  |
|          | inter-f  |          |          | eq\_RSTD | support  |
|          | requency |          |          |          | of UE    |
|          | RSTD     |          |          |          | assisted |
|          | meas     |          |          |          | OTDOA    |
|          | urements |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.3-2/4 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 18       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-12   | pc       | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | \_A\_BDS | implies  |
|          | A-BDS    |          |          |          | support  |
|          |          |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          |          |          |          |          | (NOTE 3) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 19       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-12   | pc\_OTDO | This     |
|          | of UE    |          |          | A\_3DLCA | implies  |
|          | assisted |          |          |          | support  |
|          | OTDOA    |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | for 3DL  |          |          |          | A        |
|          | Carrier  |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | Agg      |          |          |          |          |
|          | regation |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 20       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-13   | pc\_     | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | UEA\_MBS | implies  |
|          | UE-      |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | MBS      |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 21       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-13   | pc\_WLAN | This     |
|          | for      |          |          |          | implies  |
|          | UE-      |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | WLAN     |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 22       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-13   | pc\_B    | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | luetooth | implies  |
|          | UE-      |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | B        |          |          |          | A        |
|          | luetooth |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 23       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-13   | pc\_Sens | This     |
|          | for      |          |          |          | implies  |
|          | UE-      |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | Sensor   |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 24       | No       | 36.355   | Rel-14   | pc\      | This     |
|          | support  |          |          | _UEB\_No | implies  |
|          | of       |          |          | periodic | support  |
|          | pe       |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | riodical |          |          |          | A        |
|          | r        |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | eporting |          |          |          |          |
|          | for UE   |          |          |          |          |
|          | based    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Assist   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ed-GNSS. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 25       | No       | 36.355   | Rel-14   | pc\      | This     |
|          | support  |          |          | _UEA\_No | implies  |
|          | of       |          |          | periodic | support  |
|          | pe       |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | riodical |          |          |          | A        |
|          | r        |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | eporting |          |          |          |          |
|          | for UE   |          |          |          |          |
|          | assisted |          |          |          |          |
|          | Assist   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ed-GNSS. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 26       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-14   | pc\_     | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | UEB\_MBS | implies  |
|          | UE-Based |          |          |          | support  |
|          | MBS      |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 27       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-14   | pc\_U    | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | EB\_WLAN | implies  |
|          | UE-Based |          |          |          | support  |
|          | WLAN     |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 28       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-14   | pc\_U    | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | EB\_Sens | implies  |
|          | UE-Based |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Sensor   |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 29       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-16   | pc\_Mu   | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | lti\_RTT | implies  |
|          | UE-      |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | M        |          |          |          | A        |
|          | ulti-RTT |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 30       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-16   | pc\_UEA\ | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | _DL\_AoD | implies  |
|          | UE-      |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | DL-AoD   |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 31       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-16   | pc\_UEB\ | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | _DL\_AoD | implies  |
|          | UE-Based |          |          |          | support  |
|          | DL-AoD   |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 32       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-16   | p        | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | c\_UEA\_ | implies  |
|          | UE-      |          |          | DL\_TDOA | support  |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | DL-TDOA  |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 33       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-16   | p        | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | c\_UEB\_ | implies  |
|          | UE-Based |          |          | DL\_TDOA | support  |
|          | DL-TDOA  |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 34       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-16   | pc\_     | This     |
|          | for      |          |          | NR\_ECID | implies  |
|          | UE-      |          |          |          | support  |
|          | Assisted |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | NR E-CID |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 35       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-16   | pc\      | This     |
|          | for NR   |          |          | _NR\_UL\ | implies  |
|          | U        |          |          | _SRS\_Ca | support  |
|          | L-SRS-Ca |          |          | pability | of LPP   |
|          | pability |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 36       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-9    | pc       | This     |
|          | for GPS  |          |          | \_A\_GPS | implies  |
|          | L1 C/A   |          |          | +GLONASS | support  |
|          | and      |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | GLONASS  |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 37       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-12   | pc       | This     |
|          | for GPS  |          |          | \_A\_GPS | implies  |
|          | L1 C/A   |          |          | +Galileo | support  |
|          | and      |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | Galileo  |          |          |          | A.       |
|          |          |          |          |          | 4.2-1/1. |
|          |          |          |          |          | (NOTE 1) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 38       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-12   | pc\_A\   | This     |
|          | for GPS  |          |          | _GPS+BDS | implies  |
|          | L1 C/A   |          |          |          | support  |
|          | and BDS  |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          |          |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          |          |          |          |          | (NOTE 3) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 39       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-12   | pc\_A\   | This     |
|          | for GPS  |          |          | _GPS+GLO | implies  |
|          | L1 C/A,  |          |          | NASS+BDS | support  |
|          | GLONASS  |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | and BDS  |          |          |          | A        |
|          |          |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          |          |          |          |          | (NOTE 3) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 40       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-12   | pc       | This     |
|          | for GPS  |          |          | \_A\_GPS | implies  |
|          | L1 C/A,  |          |          | +GLONASS | support  |
|          | GLONASS  |          |          | +Galileo | of LPP   |
|          | and      |          |          |          | A.       |
|          | Galileo  |          |          |          | 4.2-1/1. |
|          |          |          |          |          | (NOTE 1) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 41       | Support  | 36.355   | Rel-12   | pc\_A\   | This     |
|          | for GPS  |          |          | _GPS+Gal | implies  |
|          | L1 C/A,  |          |          | ileo+BDS | support  |
|          | BDS and  |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | Galileo  |          |          |          | A.       |
|          |          |          |          |          | 4.2-1/1. |
|          |          |          |          |          | (NOTE 1) |
|          |          |          |          |          | (NOTE 3) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 42       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-15   | pc\_OTD  | This     |
|          | of UE    |          |          | OA\_onNR | implies  |
|          | assisted |          |          |          | support  |
|          | OTDOA    |          |          |          | of LPP   |
|          | (based   |          |          |          | A        |
|          | on LTE   |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | signals) |          |          |          |          |
|          | on NR    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 43       | Support  | 37.355   | Rel-15   | pc\_EC   | This     |
|          | of UE    |          | (FDD)    | ID\_onNR | implies  |
|          | assisted |          | Rel-13   |          | support  |
|          | ECID     |          | (TDD)    |          | of LPP   |
|          | (based   |          | (NOTE 2) |          | A        |
|          | on LTE   |          |          |          | .4.2-1/1 |
|          | signals) |          |          |          |          |
|          | on NR    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Non-b    |          |          |          |          |          |
| ackwards |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| mpatible |          |          |          |          |          |
| changes  |          |          |          |          |          |
| were     |          |          |          |          |          |
| made to  |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Galileo  |          |          |          |          |          |
| As       |          |          |          |          |          |
| sistance |          |          |          |          |          |
| Data in  |          |          |          |          |          |
| LPP      |          |          |          |          |          |
| Rel-12,  |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| herefore |          |          |          |          |          |
| testing  |          |          |          |          |          |
| cannot   |          |          |          |          |          |
| be done  |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| earlier  |          |          |          |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| eleases. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| For TDD  |          |          |          |          |          |
| with LPP |          |          |          |          |          |
| releases |          |          |          |          |          |
| before   |          |          |          |          |          |
| Rel-13   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| Rx - Tx  |          |          |          |          |          |
| time     |          |          |          |          |          |
| di       |          |          |          |          |          |
| fference |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| report   |          |          |          |          |          |
| mapping  |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| a        |          |          |          |          |          |
| mbiguous |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| herefore |          |          |          |          |          |
| testing  |          |          |          |          |          |
| shall    |          |          |          |          |          |
| not be   |          |          |          |          |          |
| pe       |          |          |          |          |          |
| rformed. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| If the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| signal   |          |          |          |          |          |
| type for |          |          |          |          |          |
| BDS      |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| upported |          |          |          |          |          |
| by the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE       |          |          |          |          |          |
| includes |          |          |          |          |          |
| B1C then |          |          |          |          |          |
| Rel-16   |          |          |          |          |          |
| of LPP   |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| equired. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table A.4.3-3: Supplementary Services

  ------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ --------- ------------------------------------------ ----------
  Item   Supplementary Services                                                      Ref.                                             Release   Mnemonic                                   Comments
  1      Support of EPC-MO-LR request for assistance data                            24.171; 24.030; 24.080                           Rel-9     pc\_EPC\_MO\_LR\_RequestAssistanceData     
  2      Support of EPC-MO-LR request for a position estimate                        24.171; 24.030; 24.080                           Rel-9     pc\_EPC\_MO\_LR\_RequestPositionEstimate   
  3      Support of EPC-MT-LR Location Notification                                  24.171; 24.030; 24.080                           Rel-9     pc\_MT\_LR\_loc\_notif                     
  4      Support for CS-MO-LR with CS Fallback for a position estimate               23.272                                           Rel-9     pc\_CS\_MO\_LR\_CSFallback                 
  5      Support of MO-LR request for assistance data                                24.030, 5.1.1; 24.080, 4.4.3.44; 23.171, 8.1.1   R99       pc\_ParamGpsAssisData                      UTRA
  6      Support of MO-LR request for a position estimate                            23.171, 8.1.1                                    R99       pc\_ParamPosEstimate                       UTRA
  7      Support of MO-LR request for transfer to 3rd party                          23.171, 8.1.1                                    R99       pc\_ParamXfer3rdPty                        UTRA
  8      Support of MT-LR LCS value added location request notification capability   24.030; 23.271                                   R99       pc\_MT\_LR                                 UTRA
  ------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ --------- ------------------------------------------ ----------

Table A.4.3-3A: OTDOA Measurements

  Item   OTDOA Measurements                           Ref.              Release   Mnemonic                                     Comments
  ------ -------------------------------------------- ----------------- --------- -------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1      Support of interFreqRSTDmeasurement          36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-10    pc\_OTDOA\_interFreqRSTDmeasurement          
  2      Support of additionalNeighbourCellInfoList   36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-10    pc\_OTDOA\_additionalNeighbourCellInfoList   
  3      Support of prs-id                            36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_prs\_id                           
  4      Support of tp-separation-via-muting          36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_tp\_separation\_via\_muting       
  5      Support of additional-prs-config             36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_additional\_prs\_config           
  6      Support of prs-based-tbs                     36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_prs\_based\_tbs                   
  7      Support of additionalPathsReport             36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_additionalPathsReport             
  8      Support of densePrsConfig                    36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_densePrsConfig                    
  9      maxSupportedPrsBandwidth                     36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_maxSupportedPrsBandwidth          
  10     Support of prsOccGroup                       36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_prsOccGroup                       
  11     Support of prsFrequencyHopping               36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_prsFrequencyHopping               
  12     maxSupportedPrsConfigs                       36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_maxSupportedPrsConfigs            
  13     Support of periodicalReporting               36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_periodicalReporting               
  14     Support of multiPrbNprs                      36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_multiPrbNprs                      
  15     Support of idleStateForMeasurements          36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_idleStateForMeasurements          
  16     numberOfRXantennas                           36.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-14    pc\_OTDOA\_numberOfRXantennas                
  17     Support of motionMeasurements                37.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-15    pc\_OTDOA\_motionMeasurements                
  18     Support of interRAT-RSTDmeasurement          37.355, 6.5.1.7   Rel-15    pc\_OTDOA\_interRAT\_RSTDmeasurement         Inter-RAT RSTD for EUTRA measurements as described in 38.215 \[18\], 5.1.13

Table A.4.3-4: E-CID Measurements

  ------ ------------------------------------- ----------------- --------- ------------------------------------ ----------
  Item   E-CID Measurements                    Ref.              Release   Mnemonic                             Comments
  1      Support of RSRP                       36.355, 6.5.3.4   Rel-9     pc\_ECID\_Rsrp                       
  2      Support of RSRQ                       36.355, 6.5.3.4   Rel-9     pc\_ECID\_Rsrq                       
  3      Support of UE Rx-Tx Time Difference   36.355, 6.5.3.4   Rel-9     pc\_ECID\_UeRxTx                     
  4      Support of ueRxTxSupTDD               36.355, 6.5.3.4   Rel-13    pc\_ECID\_ueRxTxSupTDD               
  5      Support of periodicalReporting        36.355, 6.5.3.4   Rel-14    pc\_ECID\_periodicalReporting        
  6      Support of triggeredReporting         36.355, 6.5.3.4   Rel-14    pc\_ECID\_triggeredReporting         
  7      idleStateForMeasurements required     36.355, 6.5.3.4   Rel-14    pc\_ECID\_idleStateForMeasurements   
  ------ ------------------------------------- ----------------- --------- ------------------------------------ ----------

Table A.4.3-5: GNSS Signals

  ------ -------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- --------------------- ----------
  Item   GNSS Signals Capabilities              Ref.               Release   Mnemonic              Comments
  1      Support of A-GPS L1C signal            36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_A\_GPS\_L1C       
  2      Support of A-GPS L2C signal            36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_A\_GPS\_L2C       
  3      Support of A-GPS L5 signal             36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_A\_GPS\_L5        
  4      Support of QZS-L1 C/A signal in QZSS   36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_QZSS\_QZS\_L1     
  5      Support of QZS-L1C signal in QZSS      36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_QZSS\_QZS\_L1C    
  6      Support of QZS-L2C signal in QZSS      36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_QZSS\_QZS\_L2C    
  7      Support of QZS-L5 signal in QZSS       36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_QZSS\_QZS\_L5     
  8      Support of G1 C/A signal in GLONASS    36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_GLONASS\_G1       
  9      Support of G2 C/A signal in GLONASS    36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_GLONASS\_G2       
  10     Support of G3 signal in GLONASS        36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-9     pc\_GLONASS\_G3       
  11     Support of E1 signal in Galileo        36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-12    pc\_GALILEO\_E1       
  12     Support of E5a signal in Galileo       36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-12    pc\_GALILEO\_E5a      
  13     Support of E5b signal in Galileo       36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-12    pc\_GALILEO\_E5b      
  14     Support of E6 signal in Galileo        36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-12    pc\_GALILEO\_E6       
  15     Support of E5a+E5b signal in Galileo   36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-12    pc\_GALILEO\_E5aE5b   
  16     Support of B1 I signal in BDS          36.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-12    pc\_BDS\_B1I          
  17     Support of B1C signal in BDS           37.355, 6.5.2.13   Rel-16    pc\_BDS\_B1C          
  ------ -------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- --------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-6: ADR and Velocity Measurements

  ------ ------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- --------- --------------------------- --------------------------------------
  Item   ADR and Velocity Measurements                           Ref.              Release   Mnemonic                    Comments
  1      Support of ADR measurement reporting for Gps            36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-9     pc\_A\_GPS\_ADR             
  2      Support of ADR measurement reporting for Sbas           36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-9     pc\_SBAS\_ADR               
  3      Support of ADR measurement reporting for Qzss           36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-9     pc\_QZSS\_ADR               
  4      Support of ADR measurement reporting for Galileo        36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-12    pc\_GALILEO\_ADR            
  5      Support of ADR measurement reporting for Glonass        36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-9     pc\_GLONASS\_ADR            
  6      Support of Velocity measurement reporting for Gps       36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-9     pc\_A\_GPS\_VelocityMeas    
  7      Support of Velocity measurement reporting for Sbas      36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-9     pc\_SBAS\_VelocityMeas      
  8      Support of Velocity measurement reporting for Qzss      36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-9     pc\_QZSS\_VelocityMeas      
  9      Support of Velocity measurement reporting for Galileo   36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-12    pc\_GALILEO\_VelocityMeas   
  10     Support of Velocity measurement reporting for Glonass   36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-9     pc\_GLONASS\_VelocityMeas   
  11     Support of ADR measurement reporting for BDS            36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-12    pc\_BDS\_ADR                
  12     Support of Velocity measurement reporting for BDS       36.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-12    pc\_BDS\_VelocityMeas       
  13     Support of ADR enhancements for Gps                     37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_A\_GPS\_ADR\_ENH        Requires support of pc\_A\_GPS\_ADR
  14     Support of ADR enhancements for Sbas                    37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_SBAS\_ADR\_ENH          Requires support of pc\_SBAS\_ADR
  15     Support of ADR enhancements for Qzss                    37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_QZSS\_ADR\_ENH          Requires support of pc\_QZSS\_ADR
  16     Support of ADR enhancements for Galileo                 37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_GALILEO\_ADR\_ENH       Requires support of pc\_GALILEO\_ADR
  17     Support of ADR enhancements for Glonass                 37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_GLONASS\_ADR\_ENH       Requires support of pc\_GLONASS\_ADR
  18     Support of ADR enhancements for BDS                     37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_BDS\_ADR\_ENH           Requires support of pc\_BDS \_ADR
  19     Support of High accuracy GNSS modes for Gps             37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_A\_GPS\_HA              
  20     Support of High accuracy GNSS modes for Sbas            37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_SBAS\_HA                
  21     Support of High accuracy GNSS modes for Qzss            37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_QZSS\_HA                
  22     Support of High accuracy GNSS modes for Galileo         37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_GALILEO\_HA             
  23     Support of High accuracy GNSS modes for Glonass         37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_GLONASS\_HA             
  24     Support of High accuracy GNSS modes for BDS             37.355, 6.5.2.9   Rel-15    pc\_BDS\_HA                 
  ------ ------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- --------- --------------------------- --------------------------------------

Table A.4.3-6A: NR E-CID Measurements

  ------ -------------------------------- ----------------- --------- ----------------------------------- ----------
  Item   NR E-CID Measurements            Ref.              Release   Mnemonic                            Comments
  1      Support of SS RSRP               37.355, 6.5.9.4   Rel-16    pc\_NR\_ECID\_SSRsrp                
  2      Support of SS RSRQ               37.355, 6.5.9.4   Rel-16    pc\_NR\_ECID\_SSRsrq                
  3      Support of CSI RSRP              37.355, 6.5.9.4   Rel-16    pc\_NR\_ECID\_CSIRsrp               
  4      Support of CSI RSRQ              37.355, 6.5.9.4   Rel-16    pc\_NR\_ECID\_CSIRsrq               
  5      Support of periodicalReporting   37.355, 6.5.9.4   Rel-16    pc\_NR\_ECID\_periodicalReporting   
  6      Support of triggeredReporting    37.355, 6.5.9.4   Rel-16    pc\_NR\_ECID\_triggeredReporting    
  ------ -------------------------------- ----------------- --------- ----------------------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-6B: NR DL-PRS Capability

  ------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------
  Item   NR DL-PRS Capability                                                        Ref.            Release   Mnemonic                                                                       Comments
  1      maxNrOfDL-PRS-ResourceSetPerTrpPerFrequencyLayer                            37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfDL\_PRS\_ResourceSetPerTrpPerFrequencyLayer                         
  2      maxNrOfTRP-AcrossFreqs                                                      37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfTRP\_AcrossFreqs                                                    
  3      maxNrOfPosLayer                                                             37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfPosLayer                                                            
  4      maxNrOfDL-PRS-ResourcesPerResourceSet                                       37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfDL\_PRS\_ResourcesPerResourceSet                                    
  5      maxNrOfDL-PRS-ResourcesPerPositioningFrequencylayer                         37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfDL\_PRS\_ResourcesPerPositioningFrequencylayer                      
  6      maxNrOfDL-PRS-ResourcesAcrossAllFL-TRP-ResourceSet-fr1-Only                 37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfDL\_PRS\_ResourcesAcrossAllFL\_TRP\_ResourceSet\_fr1\_Only          
  7      maxNrOfDL-PRS-ResourcesAcrossAllFL-TRP-ResourceSet-fr2-Only                 37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfDL\_PRS\_ResourcesAcrossAllFL\_TRP\_ResourceSet\_fr2\_Only          
  8      maxNrOfDL-PRS-ResourcesAcrossAllFL-TRP-ResourceSet - fr1-FR2Mix-fr1         37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfDL\_PRS\_ResourcesAcrossAllFL\_TRP\_ResourceSet\_fr1\_FR2Mix\_fr1   
  9      Support of ssb-FromNeighCellAsQCL for at least one NR band                  37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_ssb\_FromNeighCellAsQCL                                                    
  10     Support of prs-FromServNeighCellAsQCL for at least one NR band              37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_prs\_FromServNeighCellAsQCL                                                
  11     maxSupportedFreqLayers                                                      37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxSupportedFreqLayers                                                     
  12     Support of simulLTE-NR-PRS                                                  37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_simulLTE\_NR\_PRS                                                          
  13     supportedBandwidthPRS in FR1 for at least one NR band                       37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_supportedBandwidthPRS\_FR1                                                 
  14     supportedBandwidthPRS in FR2 for at least one NR band                       37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_supportedBandwidthPRS\_FR2                                                 
  15     dl-PRS-BufferType for at least one NR band                                  37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_dl\_PRS\_BufferType                                                        
  16     durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbols for at least one NR band                    37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_durationOfPRS\_ProcessingSymbols                                           
  17     PRS-ProcessingSymbolsInEveryTms for at least one NR band                    37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_PRS\_ProcessingSymbolsInEveryTms                                           
  18     maxNumOfDL-PRS-ResProcessedPerSlot in 15kHz SCS for at least one NR band    37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumOfDL\_PRS\_ResProcessedPerSlot\_SCS15                                
  19     maxNumOfDL-PRS-ResProcessedPerSlot in 30kHz SCS for at least one NR band    37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumOfDL\_PRS\_ResProcessedPerSlot\_SCS30                                
  20     maxNumOfDL-PRS-ResProcessedPerSlot in 60kHz SCS for at least one NR band    37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumOfDL\_PRS\_ResProcessedPerSlot\_SCS60                                
  21     maxNumOfDL-PRS-ResProcessedPerSlot in 120kHz SCS for at least one NR band   37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumOfDL\_PRS\_ResProcessedPerSlot\_SCS120                               
  22     maxNrOfDL-PRS-ResourcesAcrossAllFL-TRP-ResourceSet-fr1-FR2Mix-fr2           37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfDL\_PRS\_ResourcesAcrossAllFL\_TRP\_ResourceSet\_fr1\_FR2Mix\_fr2   
  ------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------

Table A.4.3-6C: NR Multi-RTT Measurements

  ------ ---------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- --------------------------------------- ----------
  Item   NR Multi-RTT Measurements                Ref.               Release   Mnemonic                                Comments
  1      maxNrOfRx-TX-MeasFR1                     37.355, 6.5.12.6   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfRx\_TX\_MeasFR1              
  2      maxNrOfRx-TX-MeasFR2                     37.355, 6.5.12.6   Rel-16    pc\_maxNrOfRx\_TX\_MeasFR2              
  3      Support of RSRP-MeasFR1                  37.355, 6.5.12.6   Rel-16    pc\_RSRP\_MeasFR1                       
  4      Support of RSRP-MeasFR2                  37.355, 6.5.12.6   Rel-16    pc\_RSRP\_MeasFR2                       
  5      Support of srs-AssocPRS-MultiLayersFR1   37.355, 6.5.12.6   Rel-16    pc\_srs\_AssocPRS\_MultiLayersFR1       
  6      Support of srs-AssocPRS-MultiLayersFR2   37.355, 6.5.12.6   Rel-16    pc\_srs\_AssocPRS\_MultiLayersFR2       
  7      Support of additionalPathsReport         37.355, 6.5.12.6   Rel-16    pc\_Multi\_RTT\_additionalPathsReport   
  8      Support of periodicalReporting           37.355, 6.5.12.6   Rel-16    pc\_Multi\_RTT\_periodicalReporting     
  ------ ---------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- --------------------------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-6D: NR UL-SRS Capability

  ------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------ ----------
  Item   NR UL-SRS Capability                                                               Ref.            Release   Mnemonic                                               Comments
  1      maxNumberSRS-PosPathLossEstimateAllServingCells                                    37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumberSRS\_PosPathLossEstimateAllServingCells   
  2      maxNumberSRS-PosSpatialRelationsAllServingCells                                    37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumberSRS\_PosSpatialRelationsAllServingCell    
  3      Support of olpc-SRS-PosBasedOnPRS-Serving for at least one NR band                 37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_olpc\_SRS\_PosBasedOnPRS\_Serving                  
  4      Support of olpc-SRS-PosBasedOnSSB-Neigh for at least one NR band                   37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_olpc\_SRS\_PosBasedOnSSB\_Neigh                    
  5      Support of olpc-SRS-PosBasedOnPRS-Neigh for at least one NR band                   37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_olpc\_SRS\_PosBasedOnPRS\_Neigh                    
  6      maxNumberPathLossEstimatePerServing for at least one NR band                       37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumberPathLossEstimatePerServing                
  7      Support of spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnSSB-Serving for at least one NR band      37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_spatialRelation\_SRS\_PosBasedOnSSB\_Serving       
  8      Support of spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnCSI-RS-Serving for at least one NR band   37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_spatialRelation\_SRS\_PosBasedOnCSI\_RS\_Serving   
  9      Support of spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnPRS-Serving for at least one NR band      37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_spatialRelation\_SRS\_PosBasedOnPRS\_Serving       
  10     Support of spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnSRS for at least one NR band              37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_spatialRelation\_SRS\_PosBasedOnSRS                
  11     Support of spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnSSB-Neigh for at least one NR band        37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_spatialRelation\_SRS\_PosBasedOnSSB\_Neigh         
  12     Support of spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnPRS-Neigh for at least one NR band        37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_spatialRelation\_SRS\_PosBasedOnPRS\_Neigh         
  13     maxNumberSRS-PosResourceSetsPerBWP for at least one NR band                        37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumberSRS\_PosResourceSetsPerBWP                
  14     maxNumberSRS-PosResourcesPerBWP for at least one NR band                           37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumberSRS\_PosResourcesPerBWP                   
  15     maxNumberPeriodicSRS-PosResourcesPerBWP for at least one NR band                   37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumberPeriodicSRS\_PosResourcesPerBWP           
  16     maxNumberAP-SRS-PosResourcesPerBWP for at least one NR band                        37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumberAP\_SRS\_PosResourcesPerBWP               
  17     maxNumberSP-SRS-PosResourcesPerBWP for at least one NR band                        37.355, 6.4.3   Rel-16    pc\_maxNumberSP\_SRS\_PosResourcesPerBWP               
  ------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------ ----------

Table A.4.3-6E: NR DL-AoD Measurements

  ------ --------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- ---------------------------------------------- ----------
  Item   NR DL-AoD Measurements                                          Ref.               Release   Mnemonic                                       Comments
  1      maxDL-PRS-RSRP-MeasurementFR1                                   37.355, 6.5.11.6   Rel-16    pc\_maxDL\_PRS\_RSRP\_MeasurementFR1           
  2      maxDL-PRS-RSRP-MeasurementFR2                                   37.355, 6.5.11.6   Rel-16    pc\_maxDL\_PRS\_RSRP\_MeasurementFR2           
  3      Support of simul-NR-DL-AoD-DL-TDOA for at least one NR band     37.355, 6.5.11.6   Rel-16    pc\_simul\_NR\_DL\_AoD\_DL\_TDOA               
  4      Support of simul-NR-DL-AoD-Multi-RTT for at least one NR band   37.355, 6.5.11.6   Rel-16    pc\_simul\_NR\_DL\_AoD\_Multi\_RTT             
  5      Support of periodicalReporting in standalone mode               37.355, 6.5.11.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_AoD\_periodicalReporting\_standalone   
  6      Support of periodicalReporting in UE-based mode                 37.355, 6.5.11.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_AoD\_periodicalReporting\_UEB          
  7      Support of periodicalReporting in UE-assisted mode              37.355, 6.5.11.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_AoD\_periodicalReporting\_UEA          
  ------ --------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- ---------------------------------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-6F: NR DL-TDOA Measurements

  ------ ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- ----------------------------------------------- ----------
  Item   NR DL-TDOA Measurements                              Ref.               Release   Mnemonic                                        Comments
  1      dl-RSTD-MeasurementPerPairOfTRP-FR1                  37.355, 6.5.10.6   Rel-16    pc\_dl\_RSTD\_MeasurementPerPairOfTRP\_FR1      
  2      dl-RSTD-MeasurementPerPairOfTRP-FR2                  37.355, 6.5.10.6   Rel-16    pc\_dl\_RSTD\_MeasurementPerPairOfTRP\_FR2      
  3      Support of DL-PRS-RSRP-MeasFR1                       37.355, 6.5.10.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_PRS\_RSRP\_MeasFR1                      
  4      Support of DL-PRS-RSRP-MeasFR2                       37.355, 6.5.10.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_PRS\_RSRP\_MeasFR2                      
  5      Support of additionalPathsReport                     37.355, 6.5.10.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_TDOA\_additionalPathsReport             
  6      Support of periodicalReporting in standalone mode    37.355, 6.5.10.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_TDOA\_periodicalReporting\_standalone   
  7      Support of periodicalReporting in UE-based mode      37.355, 6.5.10.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_TDOA\_periodicalReporting\_UEB          
  8      Support of periodicalReporting in UE-assisted mode   37.355, 6.5.10.6   Rel-16    pc\_DL\_TDOA\_periodicalReporting\_UEA          
  ------ ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- ----------------------------------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-7: GNSS Assistance Data Support

  ------ ------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- ---------------------------------------------------- ----------
  Item   GNSS Assistance Data Support                                        Ref.               Release   Mnemonic                                             Comments
  1      Gnss-ReferenceTimeSupport (Common Assistance Data)                  36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_RefTimeSup                                 
  2      Gnss-ReferenceLocationSupport (Common Assistance Data)              36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_RefLocSup                                  
  3      Gnss-IonosphericModelSupport (Common Assistance Data)               36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_IonoModSup                                 
  4      Gnss-EarthOrientationParametersSupport (Common Assistance Data)     36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_EOPSup                                     
  5      Gnss-TimeModelsSupport for GPS                                      36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_TimeModSup\_Gps                            
  6      Gnss-TimeModelsSupport for SBAS                                     36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_TimeModSup\_Sbas                           
  7      Gnss-TimeModelsSupport for QZSS                                     36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_TimeModSup\_Qzss                           
  8      Gnss-TimeModelsSupport for Galileo                                  36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_TimeModSup\_Galileo                        
  9      Gnss-TimeModelsSupport for GLONASS                                  36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_TimeModSup\_Glonass                        
  10     Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for GPS L1 C/A                  36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_Gps                            
  11     Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for SBAS                        36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_Sbas                           
  12     Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for QZSS                        36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_Qzss                           
  13     Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for Galileo E1                  36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_Galileo                        
  14     Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for GLONASS                     36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_Glonass                        
  15     Gnss-NavigationModelSupport for GPS (Model-2)                       36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_NavModSup\_Gps                             
  16     Gnss-NavigationModelSupport for SBAS (Model-5)                      36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_NavModSup\_Sbas                            
  17     Gnss-NavigationModelSupport for QZSS (Model-2)                      36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_NavModSup\_Qzss                            
  18     Gnss-NavigationModelSupport for Galileo (Model-1)                   36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_NavModSup\_Galileo                         
  19     Gnss-NavigationModelSupport for GLONASS (Model-4)                   36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_NavModSup\_Glonass                         
  20     Gnss-RealTimeIntegritySupport for GPS                               36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_RTISup\_Gps                                
  21     Gnss-RealTimeIntegritySupport for SBAS                              36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_RTISup\_Sbas                               
  22     Gnss-RealTimeIntegritySupport for QZSS                              36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_RTISup\_Qzss                               
  23     Gnss-RealTimeIntegritySupport for Galileo                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_RTISup\_Galileo                            
  24     Gnss-RealTimeIntegritySupport for GLONASS                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_RTISup\_Glonass                            
  25     Gnss-DataBitAssistanceSupport for GPS                               36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DataBitsSup\_Gps                           
  26     Gnss-DataBitAssistanceSupport for SBAS                              36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DataBitsSup\_Sbas                          
  27     Gnss-DataBitAssistanceSupport for QZSS                              36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DataBitsSup\_Qzss                          
  28     Gnss-DataBitAssistanceSupport for Galileo                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_DataBitsSup\_Galileo                       
  29     Gnss-DataBitAssistanceSupport for GLONASS                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DataBitsSup\_Glonass                       
  30     Gnss-AcquisitionAssistanceSupport for GPS                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssistSup\_Gps                         
  31     Gnss-AcquisitionAssistanceSupport for SBAS                          36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssistSup\_Sbas                        
  32     Gnss-AcquisitionAssistanceSupport for QZSS                          36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssistSup\_Qzss                        
  33     Gnss-AcquisitionAssistanceSupport for Galileo                       36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssistSup\_Galileo                     
  34     Gnss-AcquisitionAssistanceSupport for GLONASS                       36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssistSup\_Glonass                     
  35     Gnss-AlmanacSupport for GPS (Model-2)                               36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AlmanacSup\_Gps                            
  36     Gnss-AlmanacSupport for SBAS (Model-6)                              36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AlmanacSup\_Sbas                           
  37     Gnss-AlmanacSupport for QZSS (Model-2)                              36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AlmanacSup\_Qzss                           
  38     Gnss-AlmanacSupport for Galileo (Model-1)                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AlmanacSup\_Galileo                        
  39     Gnss-AlmanacSupport for GLONASS (Model-5)                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AlmanacSup\_Glonass                        
  40     Gnss-UTC-ModelSupport for GPS (Model-1)                             36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_UTCModSup\_Gps                             
  41     Gnss-UTC-ModelSupport for SBAS (Model-4)                            36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_UTCModSup\_Sbas                            
  42     Gnss-UTC-ModelSupport for QZSS (Model-1)                            36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_UTCModSup\_Qzss                            
  43     Gnss-UTC-ModelSupport for Galileo (Model-1)                         36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_UTCModSup\_Galileo                         
  44     Gnss-UTC-ModelSupport for GLONASS (Model-3)                         36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_UTCModSup\_Glonass                         
  45     Gnss-AuxiliaryInformationSupport for GPS                            36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AuxInfoSup\_Gps                            
  46     Gnss-AuxiliaryInformationSupport for SBAS                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AuxInfoSup\_Sbas                           
  47     Gnss-AuxiliaryInformationSupport for QZSS                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AuxInfoSup\_Qzss                           
  48     Gnss-AuxiliaryInformationSupport for Galileo                        36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AuxInfoSup\_Galileo                        
  49     Gnss-AuxiliaryInformationSupport for GLONASS                        36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AuxInfoSup\_Glonass                        
  50     Gnss-TimeModelsSupport for BDS                                      36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_TimeModSup\_BDS                            
  51     Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for BDS B1I                     36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_BDS                            
  52     Gnss-NavigationModelSupport for BDS (Model-6)                       36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_NavModSup\_BDS                             
  53     Gnss-RealTimeIntegritySupport for BDS                               36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_RTISup\_BDS                                
  54     Gnss-DataBitAssistanceSupport for BDS                               36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_DataBitsSup\_BDS                           
  55     Gnss-AcquisitionAssistanceSupport for BDS                           36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssistSup\_BDS                         
  56     Gnss-AlmanacSupport for BDS (Model-7)                               36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AlmanacSup\_BDS                            
  57     Gnss-UTC-ModelSupport for BDS (Model-5)                             36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_UTCModSup\_BDS                             
  58     Gnss-AuxiliaryInformationSupport for BDS                            36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AuxInfoSup\_BDS                            
  59     Bds-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for B1I                          36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_BDS\_DiffCorr                                    
  60     Bds-GridModelSupport                                                36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_BDS\_GridMod                                     
  61     Support of GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance for GPS L1 C/A                36.355, 6.5.2.2    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssist\_GPS\_L1CA                      
  62     Support of GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance for GPS L5                    36.355, 6.5.2.2    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssist\_GPS\_L5                        
  63     Support of GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance for Galileo E1                36.355, 6.5.2.2    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssist\_Galileo\_E1                    
  64     Support of GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance for Galileo E5A               36.355, 6.5.2.2    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssist\_Galileo\_E5A                   
  65     Gnss-RTK-ReferenceStationInfoSupport-r15 (Common assistance data)   37.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_RefStationInfo                        
  66     Gnss-RTK-AuxiliaryStationDataSupport-r15 (Common assistance data)   37.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_AuxStationInfo                        
  67     Gnss-RTK-ObservationsSupport-r15 for GPS L1 C/A                     37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_OBS\_Gps                              
  68     Gnss-RTK-MAC-CorrectionDifferencesSupport-r15 for GPS               37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_MAC\_CorrectionDifferences\_Gps       
  69     Gnss-RTK-ResidualsSupport-r15 for GPS                               37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_Residuals\_Gps                        
  70     Gnss-RTK-FKP-GradientsSupport-r15 for GPS                           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_FKP\_Gradients\_Gps                   
  71     Gnss-SSR-OrbitCorrectionsSupport-r15 for GPS                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_OrbitCorrections\_Gps            
  72     Gnss-SSR-ClockCorrectionsSupport-r15 for GPS                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_ClockCorrections\_Gps            
  73     Gnss-SSR-CodeBiasSupport-r15 for GPS L1 C/A                         37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_CodeBias\_Gps                    
  74     Glo-RTK-BiasInformationSupport-r15                                  37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_BiasInfo\_Glonass                     
  75     Gnss-RTK-ObservationsSupport-r15 for GLONASS                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_OBS\_Glonass                          
  76     Gnss-RTK-MAC-CorrectionDifferencesSupport-r15 for GLONASS           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_MAC\_CorrectionDifferences\_Glonass   
  77     Gnss-RTK-ResidualsSupport-r15 for GLONASS                           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_Residuals\_Glonass                    
  78     Gnss-RTK-FKP-GradientsSupport-r15 for GLONASS                       37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_FKP\_Gradients\_Glonass               
  79     Gnss-SSR-OrbitCorrectionsSupport-r15 for GLONASS                    37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_OrbitCorrections\_Glonass        
  80     Gnss-SSR-ClockCorrectionsSupport-r15 for GLONASS                    37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_ClockCorrections\_Glonass        
  81     Gnss-SSR-CodeBiasSupport-r15 for GLONASS                            37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_CodeBias\_Glonass                
  82     Gnss-RTK-ObservationsSupport-r15 for Galileo                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_OBS\_Galileo                          
  83     Gnss-RTK-MAC-CorrectionDifferencesSupport-r15 for Galileo           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_MAC\_CorrectionDifferences\_Galileo   
  84     Gnss-RTK-ResidualsSupport-r15 for Galileo                           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_Residuals\_Galileo                    
  85     Gnss-RTK-FKP-GradientsSupport-r15 for Galileo                       37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_FKP\_Gradients\_Galileo               
  86     Gnss-SSR-OrbitCorrectionsSupport-r15 for Galileo                    37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_OrbitCorrections\_Galileo        
  87     Gnss-SSR-ClockCorrectionsSupport-r15 for Galileo                    37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_ClockCorrections\_Galileo        
  88     Gnss-SSR-CodeBiasSupport-r15 for Galileo E1                         37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_CodeBias\_Galileo                
  89     Gnss-RTK-ObservationsSupport-r15 for BDS B1I                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_OBS\_Bds                              
  90     Gnss-RTK-MAC-CorrectionDifferencesSupport-r15 for BDS               37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_MAC\_CorrectionDifferences\_Bds       
  91     Gnss-RTK-ResidualsSupport-r15 for BDS                               37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_Residuals\_Bds                        
  92     Gnss-RTK-FKP-GradientsSupport-r15 for BDS                           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_FKP\_Gradients\_Bds                   
  93     Gnss-SSR-OrbitCorrectionsSupport-r15 for BDS                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_OrbitCorrections\_Bds            
  94     Gnss-SSR-ClockCorrectionsSupport-r15 for BDS                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_ClockCorrections\_Bds            
  95     Gnss-SSR-CodeBiasSupport-r15 for BDS B1I                            37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_CodeBias\_Bds                    
  96     FFS                                                                                                                                                   
  97     Bds-GridModelSupport-r12                                            36.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_GridModel\_Bds                             
  98     Support of GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance for BDS B1I                   36.355, 6.5.2.2    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssist\_BDS\_B1I                       
  99     Support of GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance for BDS B1C                   37.355, 6.5.2.2    Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_AcquAssist\_BDS\_B1C                       
  100    Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for GPS L5                      36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_Gps\_L5                        
  101    Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for Galileo E5A                 36.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-12    pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_Galileo\_E5A                   
  102    Gnss-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for BDS B1C                     37.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_DGNSS\_Sup\_Bds\_B1C                       
  103    Bds-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport for B1C                          37.355, 6.5.2.9    Rel-16    pc\_Bds\_DiffCorr\_B1C                               
  104    Gnss-RTK-ObservationsSupport-r15 for GPS L5                         37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_OBS\_Gps\_L5                          
  105    Gnss-RTK-ObservationsSupport-r15 for Galileo E5A                    37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_OBS\_Galileo\_E5A                     
  106    Gnss-RTK-ObservationsSupport-r15 for BDS B1C                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_OBS\_Bds\_B1C                         
  107    Gnss-SSR-CodeBiasSupport-r15 for GPS L5                             37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_CodeBias\_Gps\_L5                
  108    Gnss-SSR-CodeBiasSupport-r15 for Galileo E5A                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_CodeBias\_Galileo\_E5A           
  109    Gnss-SSR-CodeBiasSupport-r15 for BDS B1C                            37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_RTK\_SSR\_CodeBias\_Bds\_B1C               
  110    Gnss-SSR-URA-Support-r16 for GPS                                    37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_URA\_Gps                              
  111    Gnss-SSR-URA-Support-r16 for QZSS                                   37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_URA\_Qzss                             
  112    Gnss-SSR-URA-Support-r16 for Galileo                                37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_URA\_Galileo                          
  113    Gnss-SSR-URA-Support-r16 for GLONASS                                37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_URA\_Glonass                          
  114    Gnss-SSR-URA-Support-r16 for BDS                                    37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_URA\_Bds                              
  115    Gnss-SSR-PhaseBiasSupport-r16 for GPS L1 C/A                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_PhaseBias\_Gps\_L1CA                  
  116    Gnss-SSR-PhaseBiasSupport-r16 for GPS L5                            37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_PhaseBias\_Gps\_L5                    
  117    Gnss-SSR-PhaseBiasSupport-r16 for QZSS                              37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_PhaseBias\_Qzss                       
  118    Gnss-SSR-PhaseBiasSupport-r16 for Galileo E1                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_PhaseBias\_Galileo\_E1                
  119    Gnss-SSR-PhaseBiasSupport-r16 for Galileo E5A                       37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_PhaseBias\_Galileo\_E5A               
  120    Gnss-SSR-PhaseBiasSupport-r16 for GLONASS                           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_PhaseBias\_Glonass                    
  121    Gnss-SSR-PhaseBiasSupport-r16 for BDS B1I                           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_PhaseBias\_Bds\_B1I                   
  122    Gnss-SSR-PhaseBiasSupport-r16 for BDS B1C                           37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_PhaseBias\_Bds\_B1C                   
  123    Gnss-SSR-STEC-CorrectionSupport-r16 for GPS                         37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_STEC\_CorrSupp\_Gps                   
  124    Gnss-SSR-STEC-CorrectionSupport-r16 for QZSS                        37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_STEC\_CorrSupp\_Qzss                  
  125    Gnss-SSR-STEC-CorrectionSupport-r16 for Galileo                     37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_STEC\_CorrSupp\_Galileo               
  126    Gnss-SSR-STEC-CorrectionSupport-r16 for GLONASS                     37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_STEC\_CorrSupp\_Glonass               
  127    Gnss-SSR-STEC-CorrectionSupport-r16 for BDS                         37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_STEC\_CorrSupp\_Bds                   
  128    Gnss-SSR-GriddedCorrectionSupport-r16 for GPS                       37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_GridCorrSupp\_Gps                     
  129    Gnss-SSR-GriddedCorrectionSupport-r16 for QZSS                      37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_GridCorrSupp\_Qzss                    
  130    Gnss-SSR-GriddedCorrectionSupport-r16 for Galileo                   37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_GridCorrSupp\_Galileo                 
  131    Gnss-SSR-GriddedCorrectionSupport-r16 for GLONASS                   37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_GridCorrSupp\_Glonass                 
  132    Gnss-SSR-GriddedCorrectionSupport-r16 for BDS                       37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_GNSS\_SSR\_GridCorrSupp\_Bds                     
  133    Navic-DifferentialCorrectionsSupport-r16                            37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_Navic\_DGNSS\_Sup                                
  134    Navic-GridModelSupport-r16                                          37.355, 6.5.2.10   Rel-16    pc\_Navic\_GridModelSupp                             
  ------ ------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ --------- ---------------------------------------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-7A: MBS Assistance Data Support

  ------ -------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ---------------------------- ----------
  Item   MBS Assistance Data                    Ref.            Release   Mnemonic                     Comments
  1      Support of mbs-AlmanacAssistance       36.355, 6.5.4   Rel-14    pc\_MBS\_AlmanacAssist       
  2      Support of mbs-AcquisitionAssistance   36.355, 6.5.4   Rel-14    pc\_MBS\_AcquisitionAssist   
  ------ -------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ---------------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-7B: WLAN Assistance Data Support

  ------ ----------------------------- --------------- --------- --------------------- ----------
  Item   WLAN Assistance Data          Ref.            Release   Mnemonic              Comments
  1      Void                                                                          
  2      Support of wlan-AP-Location   36.355, 6.5.6   Rel-14    pc\_WLAN\_APLocinfo   
  ------ ----------------------------- --------------- --------- --------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-8: Location Coordinate Types

  ------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ---------------------------------------- ----------
  Item   Location Coordinate Types                                                   Ref.            Release   Mnemonic                                 Comments
  1      Ellipsoid Point Support                                                     36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_EllipPoint                     
  2      Ellipsoid Point With Uncertainty Circle Support                             36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_EllipPointUncertCircle         
  3      Ellipsoid Point With Uncertainty Ellipse Support                            36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_EllipPointUncertEllip          
  4      Polygon Support                                                             36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_Polygon                        
  5      Ellipsoid Point With Altitude Support                                       36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_EllipPointAlt                  
  6      Ellipsoid Point With Altitude And Uncertainty Ellipsoid Support             36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_EllipPointAltUncertEllip       
  7      Ellipsoid Arc Support                                                       36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_EllipArc                       
  8      High Accuracy Ellipsoid Point With Uncertainty Ellipse-r15                  37.355, 6.4.1   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_HA\_EllipPointUncertCircle     
  9      High Accuracy Ellipsoid Point With Altitude And Uncertainty Ellipsoid-r15   37.355, 6.4.1   Rel-15    pc\_GNSS\_HA\_EllipPointAltUncertEllip   
  ------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ---------------------------------------- ----------

Table A.4.3-9: Velocity Types

  ------ ----------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ----------------------- ----------
  Item   Velocity Types                                              Ref.            Release   Mnemonic                Comments
  1      Horizontal Velocity Support                                 36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_HVel          
  2      Horizontal With Vertical Velocity Support                   36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_HVVel         
  3      Horizontal Velocity With Uncertainty Support                36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_HVelUncert    
  4      Horizontal With Vertical Velocity And Uncertainty Support   36.355, 6.4.1   Rel-9     pc\_GNSS\_HVVelUncert   
  ------ ----------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ----------------------- ----------

### \`A.4.4 Additional information

Table A.4.4-1: Additional information

  ------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------ --------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------------------
  Item   Additional information                                                               Ref.               Release   Mnemonic                                   Comments
  1      Support of sending of acknowledgement request in LPP Provide Capabilities message.   36.355, 4.3.3      Rel-9     pc\_LPP\_SendingACK\_ProvideCapabilities   
  2      Support of CE mode A                                                                 36.306, 4.3.29.1   Rel-13    pc\_CEmodeA                                Mandatory for Category M1 UE
  3      Support of CE mode B                                                                 36.306, 4.3.29.2   Rel-13    pc\_CEmodeB                                
  4      Support of "Voice Domain Preference for E-UTRAN"                                     24.301             Rel-9     pc\_VoLTE                                  VoLTE Capable UE
  5      Support of LPP message segmentation                                                  36.355, 4.3.5      Rel-14    pc\_LPP\_MsgSegmentation                   
  ------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------ --------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------------------

Table A.4.4-2: Additional UE radio access capabilities (Mandatory for
Rel-11 and onward)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Item  | Addit | Ref.  | Re    | S     | Su    | Mne   | Com   |
|       | ional |       | lease | tatus | pport | monic | ments |
|       | ca    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | pabil |       |       | (Note | Y     |       |       |
|       | ities |       |       | 1)    | es/No |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | (Note |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2)    |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | UE    | 36    | R     | O.01  |       | p     | This  |
|       | sup   | .306, | el-11 |       |       | c\_CR | is a  |
|       | ports | 4.3   |       |       |       | S\_In | R     |
|       | CRS   | .4.15 |       |       |       | terfe | el-11 |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       | rence | Mand  |
|       | terfe |       |       |       |       |       | atory |
|       | rence |       |       |       |       |       | fe    |
|       | han   |       |       |       |       |       | ature |
|       | dling |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 2     | UE    | 36    | R     | O.01  |       | pc\   | This  |
|       | sup   | .306, | el-11 |       |       | _ssCC | is a  |
|       | ports | 4.3   |       |       |       | H\_In | R     |
|       | s     | .4.20 |       |       |       | terfe | el-11 |
|       | s-CCH |       |       |       |       | rence | Mand  |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       | atory |
|       | terfe |       |       |       |       |       | fe    |
|       | rence |       |       |       |       |       | ature |
|       | han   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | dling |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| From  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| R     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| el-11 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| wards |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3GPP  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TSG   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RAN   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| has   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| intro |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| duced |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| foll  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| owing |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| princ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| iples |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (TS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6.306 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [13\] |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4):   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \'For |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| opt   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ional |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| feat  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ures, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| radio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ccess |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| capab |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ility |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| indi  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cates |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| wh    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ether |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fe    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ature |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| has   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| been  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| i     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mplem |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ented |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ccess |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fully |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| te    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sted. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mand  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| atory |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tures |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| radio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ccess |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| capab |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ility |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| param |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| eter, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| indi  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cates |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| wh    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ether |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fe    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ature |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| has   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| been  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ccess |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fully |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| teste |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| d.\'\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Refle |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| situa |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tion, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| esent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tatus |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Mand  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| atory |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tures |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| would |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| indi  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cated |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ondit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ional |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Opt   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ional |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| O.xx) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| until |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| IOT   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| te    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| av    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ailab |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ility |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ens   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ured. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dec   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ision |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| when  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| IOT   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| te    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| av    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ailab |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ility |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| can   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| consi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dered |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| en    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| made  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3GPP  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TSG   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RAN.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| After |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3GPP  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TSG   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RAN   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dec   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ision |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| that  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| IOT   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| te    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| avail |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| able, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tatus |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| capab |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ility |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| will  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ch    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| anged |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Mand  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| atory |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (M)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| from  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| would |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| expli |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| citly |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| st    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ated. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2: If |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| indi  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cated |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \"    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Yes\" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fe    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ature |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| shall |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| i     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mplem |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ented |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ccess |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fully |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ested |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ease. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table A.4.4-3: Additional UE radio access capabilities conditions

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  O.01 IF The feature has been IOT-ed THEN Support shall be indicated ELSE Support shall not be indicated
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  ---------------- ---------- ----------- ------ ----- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  Change history                                                                                                                                                                                                
  Date             TSG \#     TSG Doc.    CR     Rev   Subject/Comment                                                                                                                                Old       New
  **36.571-3**                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  2010-08          RAN5\#48   R5-104317   \-     \-    Initial version                                                                                                                                          0.0.0
  2011-02          RAN5\#50   R5-110253   \-     \-    Addition of test case applicability                                                                                                            0.0.0     0.1.0
  2011-08          RAN5\#52   R5-113273   \-     \-    Addition of E-CID and OTDOA performance test case applicability                                                                                0.1.0     
                              R5-113139   \-     \-    Addition of UE Network Capability test case                                                                                                              
                              R5-113773   \-     \-    Addition of Notification test cases                                                                                                                      
                              R5-113148   \-     \-    Addition of Position Capability Transfer test case                                                                                                       1.0.0
  **37.571-3**                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  2011-11          RAN5\#53   R5-115253   \-     \-    Creation of 37.571-3 based on 36.571-3 v1.0.0, 34.123-2 v9.6.0, 34.171 v9.3.0 and 34.172 va.1.0                                                \-        1.0.0
  \-               \-         R5-115254   \-     \-    Corrections to the 37.571-3 baseline text                                                                                                      \-        \-
  \-               \-         R5-115255   \-     \-    Addition of missing test case applicability to the 37.571-3 baseline text                                                                      \-        \-
  \-               \-         R5-115256   \-     \-    Applicable Release for UMTS A-GNSS Test Cases in 37.571-3 baseline text                                                                        \-        2.0.0
  2011-12          RAN\#54    \-          \-     \-    Moved to Rel-9 with editorial changes only.                                                                                                    2.0.0     9.0.0
  2012-03          RAN\#55    R5-120365   0001   \-    Addition of missing test case applicability for test cases 7.3.4.1, 7.3.4.2, 7.3.4.3, and 7.3.4.4                                              9.0.0     9.1.0
  2012-03          RAN\#55    R5-120529   0002   \-    Remove redundant mnemonics                                                                                                                     9.0.0     9.1.0
  2012-06          RAN\#56    \-          \-     \-    Upgraded to v10.0.0 with no change.                                                                                                            9.1.0     10.0.0
  2012-09          RAN\#57    R5-123689   0003   \-    Correction of sub-test names and PICS names                                                                                                    10.0.0    10.1.0
  2012-09          RAN\#57    R5-123689   0003   \-    Addition of missing sub test cases name change                                                                                                 10.1.0    10.1.1
  2012-12          RAN\#58    R5-125119   0004   \-    Add new PICS and post-fix for conditions                                                                                                       10.1.1    10.2.0
  2012-12          RAN\#58    R5-124121   0006   \-    Applicabilities for new test cases 10.1 - 10.4 for RSTD for Carrier Aggregation                                                                10.1.1    10.2.0
  2013-03          RAN\#59    R5-130594   0007   \-    Correction of applicability for TC 7.3.2.3                                                                                                     10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-04          \-         \-          \-     \-    fix of history table                                                                                                                           10.3.0    10.3.1
  2013-06          RAN\#60    R5-131305   0008   \-    Correction of applicability for LTE UE Positioning test cases                                                                                  10.3.1    10.4.0
  2013-06          RAN\#60    R5-131328   0009   \-    Applicability for new test case 7.5.1 for inter-frequency RSTD measurement indication procedure                                                10.3.1    10.4.0
  2013-06          RAN\#60    R5-131995   0010   \-    Applicabilities for new TDD inter-frequency tests 9.2.2 and 9.2.5                                                                              10.3.1    10.4.0
  2013-06          RAN\#60    R5-131996   0011   \-    Addition of the Applicability for FDD-FDD inter-frequency RSTD Test Cases                                                                      10.3.1    10.4.0
  2013-06          RAN\#60    R5-132011   0012   \-    Corrections and clarifications to Applicabilities tables                                                                                       10.3.1    10.4.0
  2013-09          RAN\#61    R5-133633   0013   \-    Correction to 7.3.3.1                                                                                                                          10.4.0    10.5.0
  2013-12          RAN\#62    R5-134203   0014   \-    Corrections to Applicabilities C12es and C13es                                                                                                 10.5.0    10.6.0
  2013-12          RAN\#62    R5-134204   0015   \-    Addition of Applicabilities for 9.2.1 - 9.2.5                                                                                                  10.5.0    10.6.0
  2013-12          RAN\#62    R5-134911   0016   \-    Change Applicability of test 7.3.5.1                                                                                                           10.5.0    10.6.0
  2013-12          RAN\#62    R5-134981   0017   \-    Applicabilities for new tests 10.1a, 10.2a, 10.3a and 10.4a                                                                                    10.5.0    10.6.0
  2014-06          RAN\#64    R5-142102   0018   \-    Correction to test case title in the Applicability Table 4-1 and Table 4-3                                                                     10.6.0    10.7.0
  2014-06          RAN\#64    R5-142406   0019   \-    Correction of conditions of C26es and C27es.                                                                                                   10.6.0    10.7.0
  2014-09          RAN\#65    \-          \-     \-    Upgraded to v11.0.0 with no change                                                                                                             10.7.0    11.0.0
  2014-09          RAN\#65    R5-144843   0020   \-    Applicability for new 10+5 and 5+5 RSTD related test cases                                                                                     11.0.0    12.0.0
  2014-12          RAN\#66    R5-145263   0021   \-    Applicability table update for RRM CA test cases in clause 10 to avoid redundant testing                                                       12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-12          RAN\#66    R5-145388   0022   \-    Addition of Beidou                                                                                                                             12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-12          RAN\#66    R5-145843   0023   \-    Introduction of feICIC applicability statement for UE Rx-TX Time Difference test cases                                                         12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-12          RAN\#66    R5-145894   0024   \-    Add BDS testing contents in TS37.571-3                                                                                                         12.0.0    12.1.0
  2015-03          RAN\#67    R5-150075   0025   \-    Remove incorrect note from CA RSTD accuracy tests                                                                                              12.1.0    12.2.0
  2015-03          RAN\#67    R5-150608   0026   \-    Typo in name of parameter pc\_BDS\_B1I                                                                                                         12.1.0    12.2.0
  2015-03          RAN\#67    R5-150838   0027   \-    Missing Abbreviations in Specification                                                                                                         12.1.0    12.2.0
  2015-03          RAN\#67    R5-150889   0028   \-    Missing Fine Time Assistance Conditions                                                                                                        12.1.0    12.2.0
  2015-03          RAN\#67    R5-150890   0029   \-    Applicability for new 20+10MHz RSTD test cases                                                                                                 12.1.0    12.2.0
  2015-06          RAN\#68    R5-151087   0034   \-    RSTD accuracy changes for Rel-12                                                                                                               12.2.0    12.3.0
  2015-06          RAN\#68    R5-151090   0035   \-    Missing applicability of test case executions in Table 4-3 for E-UTRA pc\_eTDD tests                                                           12.2.0    12.3.0
  2015-06          RAN\#68    R5-151985   0033   1     Change Galileo Release Applicability                                                                                                           12.2.0    12.3.0
  2015-06          RAN\#68    R5-152034   0031   1     Change Galileo Release Applicability                                                                                                           12.2.0    12.3.0
  2015-09          RAN\#69    R5-153152   0036   \-    Incorrect ICS information in Table 4-7                                                                                                         12.3.0    12.4.0
  2015-09          RAN\#69    R5-153335   0037   \-    Change BDS Applicability for LCR TDD                                                                                                           12.3.0    12.4.0
  2015-09          RAN\#69    R5-153339   0038   \-    Restoration of condition C21es                                                                                                                 12.3.0    12.4.0
  2015-09          RAN\#69    R5-153941   0039   1     Adding applicability statements for ECID eICIC test cases 8.1.3 and 8.1.4                                                                      12.3.0    12.4.0
  2015-09          RAN\#69    \-          \-     \-    update of the \"non-specific references\" in section 2 according to the approved R5-153582 and an action point on ETSI MCC                     12.3.0    12.4.0
  2015-12          RAN\#70    R5-155137   0044   \-    Updating applicability statements for ECID feICIC test cases 8.1.5 and 8.1.6                                                                   12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-12          RAN\#70    R5-155876   0042   1     Applicabilities for two new 3 DL CA RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay test cases                                                                12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-12          RAN\#70    R5-155945   0047   1     Addition of release RAT column to applicability tables 4-7                                                                                     12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-12          RAN\#70    R5-156010   0045   1     Addition of release RAT column to applicability table 4-3                                                                                      12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-12          RAN\#70    R5-156112   0043   1     Applicabilities for two new 3 DL CA RSTD Measurement Accuracy test cases                                                                       12.4.0    12.5.0
  2016-03          RAN\#71    R5-160044   0048   \-    Releases for the new OTDOA tests 10.5 to 10.8 are missing                                                                                      12.5.0    12.6.0
  2016-03          RAN\#71    R5-160045   0049   \-    Correct TC Title typo errors in Table 4-3                                                                                                      12.5.0    12.6.0
  2016-06          RAN\#72    R5-163036   0052   1     Editorial correction of Positioning PICS Mnemonic                                                                                              12.6.0    12.7.0
  2016-09          RAN\#73    R5-165128   0053   \-    Updates to the UE Rx -- Tx Time Difference tests for Rel-12 onwards                                                                            12.7.0    12.8.0
  2016-09          RAN\#73    R5-165352   0054   \-    Applicability of new A-GPS and A-Galileo RF test conditions missing for UE Based GNSS                                                          12.7.0    12.8.0
  2016-09          RAN\#73    R5-165353   0055   \-    Applicability of new A-GPS and A-Galileo signalling test conditions missing for UE Based GNSS                                                  12.7.0    12.8.0
  2016-09          RAN\#73    R5-165997   0057   1     Introduction of Indoor Positioning enhancements (MBS) (protocol)                                                                               12.8.0    13.0.0
  2016-09          RAN\#73    R5-166150   0056   1     Introduction of Indoor Positioning enhancements (MBS) (rf)                                                                                     12.8.0    13.0.0
  2016-12          RAN\#74    R5-168062   0058   \-    Change of applicability of UE Rx-Tx tests for TDD                                                                                              13.0.0    13.1.0
  2016-12          RAN\#74    R5-168064   0059   \-    Change of applicability of ECID tests for TDD                                                                                                  13.0.0    13.1.0
  2016-12          RAN\#74    R5-168381   0061   \-    Modification to note 1 in table A.4.3-1 to remove ambiguity                                                                                    13.0.0    13.1.0
  2016-12          RAN\#74    R5-169104   0060   1     Clarification of applicability of TC 7.3.3.1 and 7.3.3.1A                                                                                      13.0.0    13.1.0
  2016-12          RAN\#74    R5-169105   0062   1     Add WLAN signalling sub-test and references for Indoor Positioning                                                                             13.0.0    13.1.0
  2016-12          RAN\#74    R5-169106   0063   1     Add BT signalling sub-test and references for Indoor Positioning                                                                               13.0.0    13.1.0
  2016-12          RAN\#74    R5-169107   0064   1     Add Sensor signalling sub-test and references for Indoor Positioning                                                                           13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03          RAN\#75    R5-170669   0065   \-    Maintenance of 37.571-3 Table 4-7 for XML conversion                                                                                           13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-03          RAN\#75    R5-170737   0066   \-    Remove Bluetooth Abbreviations                                                                                                                 13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-03          RAN\#75    R5-170738   0067   \-    Correct applicability of tests clause reference                                                                                                13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-03          RAN\#75    \-          \-     \-    Administrative release upgrade to match the release of 3GPP TS 37.571-1 which was upgraded at RAN\#74 to Rel-14 due to Rel-14 relevant CR(s)   13.2.0    14.0.0
  2017-06          RAN\#76    R5-172180   0071   \-    Add new applicability conditions for GPS, GLONASS and BDS                                                                                      14.0.0    14.1.0
  2017-06          RAN\#76    R5-172668   0073   \-    Introduction of periodical reporting capability for GNSS                                                                                       14.0.0    14.1.0
  2017-06          RAN\#76    R5-172965   0070   1     Merge GNSS sub-tests into one sub-test                                                                                                         14.0.0    14.1.0
  2017-06          RAN\#76    R5-172968   0075   1     Introduction of Conditions and Applicability for MBS Assistance Data Signalling Sub-tests                                                      14.0.0    14.1.0
  2017-06          RAN\#76    R5-173365   0074   1     Introduction of Conditions and Applicability for MBS Assistance Data Measurement Test Cases                                                    14.0.0    14.1.0
  2017-06          RAN\#76    \-          \-     \-    The titles of 7.3.3.1A and B were corrected editorially to (Rel-13 only) and (Rel-14 onwards) in order to align with the actual TC Titles.     14.0.0    14.1.0
  2017-09          RAN\#77    R5-173865   0078   \-    Editorial change to align MBS test case names with 37.571-2                                                                                    14.1.0    14.2.0
  2017-09          RAN\#77    R5-173866   0079   \-    Editorial change to align MBS test case names with 37.571-1                                                                                    14.1.0    14.2.0
  2017-09          RAN\#77    R5-175120   0080   1     Editorial correction to Table 4-3 in 3GPP TS 37.571-3                                                                                          14.1.0    14.2.0
  2017-09          RAN\#77    R5-175189   0077   1     Test case applicability for WLAN and BLE                                                                                                       14.1.0    14.2.0
  2017-12          RAN\#78    R5-177416   0081   1     Applicability changes for OTDOA/ECID 4Rx support and WLAN/BLE                                                                                  14.2.0    14.3.0
  2017-12          RAN\#78    \-          \-     \-    Administrative release upgrade to match the release of 3GPP TS 37.571-1 which was upgraded at RAN\#78 to Rel-15 due to Rel-15 relevant CR(s)   14.3.0    15.0.0
  2018-03          RAN\#79    R5-180312   0083   \-    Applicability of Cat1bis OTDOA tests                                                                                                           15.0.0    15.1.0
  2018-03          RAN\#79    R5-180313   0084   \-    Applicability of feMTC OTDOA and ECID tests                                                                                                    15.0.0    15.1.0
  2018-03          RAN\#79    R5-180314   0085   \-    Applicability of NB-IOT OTDOA tests                                                                                                            15.0.0    15.1.0
  2018-03          RAN\#79    R5-180586   0086   \-    4Rx support for OTDOA 2CC - Applicability                                                                                                      15.0.0    15.1.0
  2018-03          RAN\#79    R5-180587   0087   \-    4Rx support for OTDOA 3CC - Applicability                                                                                                      15.0.0    15.1.0
  2018-03          RAN\#79    R5-180878   0089   \-    Update Applicability for Rel-14 Sensor Positioning Protocol Tests and Sub-Tests                                                                15.0.0    15.1.0
  2018-03          RAN\#79    R5-181273   0088   1     Update Applicability for Rel-14 WLAN Positioning Protocol Tests and Sub-Tests                                                                  15.0.0    15.1.0
  2018-06          RAN\#80    R5-182220   0090   \-    Applicability for new NB-IOT OTDOA tests                                                                                                       15.1.0    15.2.0
  2018-06          RAN\#80    R5-182281   0091   \-    New ECID Cat1bis tests - Applicability                                                                                                         15.1.0    15.2.0
  2018-06          RAN\#80    R5-183850   0092   1     Applicability statement for A-GNSS min perf test cases for Cat M1                                                                              15.1.0    15.2.0
  2018-06          RAN\#80    R5-183851   0094   1     Corrections to C03-Xur and C04-Xur applicabilities                                                                                             15.1.0    15.2.0
  2018-09          RAN\#81    R5-184038   0096   \-    Addition of PICS for support of LPP message segmentation                                                                                       15.2.0    15.3.0
  2018-09          RAN\#81    R5-184190   0098   \-    Editorial - Updates for GNSS Signal Capabilities                                                                                               15.2.0    15.3.0
  2018-09          RAN\#81    R5-185359   0099   \-    Correction of the title for OTDOA IOT tests                                                                                                    15.2.0    15.3.0
  2018-12          RAN\#82    R5-186619   0100   \-    Addition of applicabilities for two missing Minimum Performance triple-GNSS test cases                                                         15.3.0    15.4.0
  2018-12          RAN\#82    R5-186620   0101   \-    Correction to applicabilities of Modernized GPS for Minimum Performance test cases                                                             15.3.0    15.4.0
  2018-12          RAN\#82    R5-186621   0102   \-    Addition of Category NB2 information                                                                                                           15.3.0    15.4.0
  2018-12          RAN\#82    R5-186622   0103   \-    Addition of PICs for support of Acquisition Assistance for Galileo E5A and GPS L5 signals                                                      15.3.0    15.4.0
  2018-12          RAN\#82    R5-186623   0104   \-    Addition of NR signalling background information                                                                                               15.3.0    15.4.0
  2018-12          RAN\#82    R5-187465   0106   \-    Editorial Changes for TS 37.571-3                                                                                                              15.3.0    15.4.0
  2018-12          RAN\#82    R5-188198   0105   2     Applicability for NR NSA Option 3 protocol tests                                                                                               15.3.0    15.4.0
  2019-03          RAN\#83    R5-191126   0107   \-    Addition of general NR information for minimum performance                                                                                     15.4.0    15.5.0
  2019-03          RAN\#83    R5-192381   0108   1     Addition LPP Rel-15 missing PICS                                                                                                               15.4.0    15.5.0
  2019-03          RAN\#83    \-          \-     \-    Administrative release upgrade to match the release of TS 37.571-1 which was upgraded at RAN\#83 to Rel-16 due to a Rel-16 relevant CR         15.5.0    16.0.0
  2019-06          RAN\#84    R5-194418   0110   \-    Remove duplicated PICS                                                                                                                         16.0.0    16.1.0
  2019-06          RAN\#84    R5-195010   0112   \-    Addition of applicabilities for A-GNSS Minimum Performance tests for NR                                                                        16.0.0    16.1.0
  2019-06          RAN\#84    R5-195012   0111   1     NR applicabilities for MBS Minimum Performance tests                                                                                           16.0.0    16.1.0
  2019-09          RAN\#85    R5-196862   0121   \-    Update NR Signalling Test Case Titles to Align with TS 37.571-2                                                                                16.1.0    16.2.0
  2019-09          RAN\#85    R5-197165   0117   1     Deletion of duplicated conditions for EUTRA tests                                                                                              16.1.0    16.2.0
  2019-09          RAN\#85    R5-197171   0118   1     Addition of missing sub-tests for NR tests                                                                                                     16.1.0    16.2.0
  2019-09          RAN\#85    R5-197172   0119   1     Corrections of LPP release information for NR tests                                                                                            16.1.0    16.2.0
  2019-09          RAN\#85    R5-197173   0120   1     Updates to NR test applicabilities for other NR scenarios                                                                                      16.1.0    16.2.0
  2019-12          RAN\#86    R5-198968   0122   1     Update to protocol positioning tests - applicability                                                                                           16.2.0    16.3.0
  2020-03          RAN\#87    R5-201011   0126   1     Applicabilities for ECID signalling test cases deleted for NR Test Configuration B                                                             16.3.0    16.4.0
  2020-03          RAN\#87    R5-201014   0124   1     Editorial changes to TS 37.571-X titles to remove references to individual RATs                                                                16.3.0    16.4.0
  2020-06          RAN\#88    R5-201624   0127   \-    Addition of missing ICS for OTDOA Measurements and E-CID Measurements                                                                          16.4.0    16.5.0
  2020-12          RAN\#90    R5-205106   0128   \-    Deletion of tests 7.3.3.1, 7.3.3.1A, 9.3.3.1 and 9.3.3.1A                                                                                      16.5.0    16.6.0
  2020-12          RAN\#90    R5-205669   0131   \-    Addition of PICS for MBS and WLAN Assistance Data Support                                                                                      16.5.0    16.6.0
  2020-12          RAN\#90    R5-206425   0130   1     Introduction of BDS B1C Signal test applicabilities in TS 37.571-3                                                                             16.5.0    16.6.0
  2020-12          RAN\#90    R5-206444   0129   1     Updates and additions of PICS for GNSS Assistance Data Support in Table A.4.3-7                                                                16.5.0    16.6.0
  2021-03          RAN\#91    R5-210261   0132   \-    Deletion of PICS for wlan-AP-Identifier                                                                                                        16.6.0    16.7.0
  2021-03          RAN\#91    R5-211802   0133   1     Addition of applicability for TDD NB-IOT RSTD measurement test cases                                                                           16.6.0    16.7.0
  2021-06          RAN\#92    R5-212243   0135   \-    Clarifications to FDD NB-IoT RSTD test case applicabilities                                                                                    16.7.0    16.8.0
  2021-06          RAN\#92    R5-213140   0139   \-    Add applicability for OTDOA feMTC                                                                                                              16.7.0    16.8.0
  2021-06          RAN\#92    R5-213640   0137   1     Addition of NR Rel 16 positioning methods test applicability and condition                                                                     16.7.0    16.8.0
  2021-06          RAN\#92    R5-213641   0138   1     Addition of NR Rel 16 positioning method abbreviations and related PICS                                                                        16.7.0    16.8.0
  2021-06          RAN\#92    R5-214037   0136   1     Update Release 15 and onwards references for TS 36.355 to TS 37.355                                                                            16.7.0    16.8.0
  2021-09          RAN\#93    R5-214181   0140   \-    Corrections to PICS for OTDOA and ECID                                                                                                         16.8.0    16.9.0
  2021-09          RAN\#93    R5-215153   0144   \-    Update applicability for OTDOA (LTE) test cases for NR                                                                                         16.8.0    16.9.0
  2021-09          RAN\#93    R5-216324   0143   1     Correction to the definitions of NR Rel 16 positioning method related PICS                                                                     16.8.0    16.9.0
  2021-12          RAN\#94    R5-216611   0146   \-    Correction of the NR DL-PRS Capability PICS definition                                                                                         16.9.0    16.10.0
  2021-12          RAN\#94    R5-217676   0149   \-    Allow for support of limited GNSS combinations                                                                                                 16.9.0    16.10.0
  2021-12          RAN\#94    R5-218290   0148   1     Add applicability for OTDOA feMTC                                                                                                              16.9.0    16.10.0
  2022-03          RAN\#95    R5-221594   0151   1     Addition of test applicabilities for PosSIB broadcasting test case                                                                             16.10.0   16.11.0
  2022-03          RAN\#95    R5-221888   0150   1     Addition of test applicabilities for NR UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement test cases                                                        16.10.0   16.11.0
  2022-06          RAN\#96    R5-222608   0152   \-    Addition of test applicabilities for RSTD and NR UE Rx-Tx time difference accuracy measurement test cases                                      16.11.0   16.12.0
  2022-06          RAN\#96    R5-223391   0153   1     Addition of test applicabilities for positioning SI messages offset test case                                                                  16.11.0   16.12.0
  2022-09          RAN\#97    R5-224409   0156   \-    Addition of test applicabilities for on-demand posSIB test case                                                                                16.12.0   16.13.0
  2022-09          RAN\#97    R5-224410   0157   \-    Addition of test applicabilities for PRS-RSRP FR2 test cases                                                                                   16.12.0   16.13.0
  2022-09          RAN\#97    R5-224411   0158   \-    Delete test applicabilities for posSIB broadcasting test case in LTE                                                                           16.12.0   16.13.0
  2022-09          RAN\#97    R5-225315   0155   1     Addition of pics for testing LTE positioning methods on NR                                                                                     16.12.0   16.13.0
  2022-12          RAN\#98    R5-226756   0159   \-    Correction to ICS information                                                                                                                  16.13.0   16.14.0
  ---------------- ---------- ----------- ------ ----- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
