![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1097222222222223in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[4](#introduction)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#security-architecture)

[7](#overview-of-the-security-architecture)

[7](#the-ut-reference-point)

[8](#security-features)

[8](#secure-access-to-the-presence-server-over-the-ut-reference-point)

[8](#authentication-of-the-subscriber-and-the-presence-server)

[8](#confidentiality-protection)

[8](#integrity-protection)

[8](#authentication-proxy)

[9](#security-mechanisms-for-the-ut-reference-point)

[9](#authentication-and-key-agreement)

[9](#authentication-of-the-subscriber)

[9](#authentication-of-the-appresence-server)

[9](#management-of-public-user-identities)

[9](#authentication-failures)

[9](#confidentiality-protection-1)

[10](#integrity-protection-1)

[10](#security-parameters-agreement)

[10](#set-up-of-security-parameters)

[10](#error-cases)

[11](#annex-a-void)

[12](#annex-b-informative-void)

[13](#annex-c-normative-requirements-specific-to-3gpp2-access)

[13](#c.1-general)

[13](#c.2-authentication-of-the-subscriber)

[13](#c.3-authentication-of-the-presence-server)

[13](#c.4-management-of-public-user-identities)

[13](#c.5-authentication-failures)

[14](#c.6-set-up-of-security-parameters)

[14](#c.7-error-cases)

[15](#annex-d-normative-gprs-ims-bundled-authentication-for-ut-interface-security)

[16](#annex-e-informative-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2
References 3 Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Abbreviations 4 Security architecture 4.1 Overview of the security
architecture 4.2 The Ut reference point 5 Security features 5.1 Secure
Access to the Presence Server over the Ut reference point 5.1.1
Authentication of the subscriber and the presence server 5.1.2
Confidentiality protection 5.1.3 Integrity protection 5.1.4
Authentication Proxy 6 Security Mechanisms for the Ut reference point
6.1 Authentication and key agreement 6.1.1 Authentication of the
subscriber 6.1.2 Authentication of the AP/Presence Server 6.1.3
Management of public user identities 6.1.4 Authentication failures 6.2
Confidentiality protection 6.3 Integrity protection 7 Security
parameters agreement 7.1 Set-up of Security parameters 7.2 Error cases
Annex A: Void Annex B (informative): Void Annex C (normative):
Requirements specific to 3GPP2 Access C.1 General C.2 Authentication of
the subscriber C.3 Authentication of the Presence Server C.4 Management
of public user identities C.5 Authentication failures C.6 Set-up of
Security parameters C.7 Error cases Annex D (normative):
GPRS-IMS-Bundled Authentication for Ut interface security Annex E
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

This technical specification gives an overview of the security
architecture and defines the security features and security mechanisms
for the presence services.

Presence services enable the dissemination of presence information of a
user to other users or services. A presence entity or presentity
comprises the user, user's devices, services and service components. It
is the intention that this platform will enable new services like e.g.
enhancement to chat, multimedia messaging, cinema ticket information,
the score of a football game and so on.

A user has the possibility to control if her or his information is made
available to other users or services. This control is possible to
achieve with high granularity e.g. explicitly define which user or users
and services have access to presence information.

A presentity is a uniquely identifiable entity with the capability to
provide the presence information and it has only one principal
associated with it. Hence a principal is distinct from all other
principals and can be e.g. a human, organisation, program or even a
collection thereof. One example of such a relation is when the
presentity is a terminal and the principal of the terminal is the
subscriber. However, the presence service is based on Public Identities,
and consequently it is possible to have several terminals related to the
same presentity. A watcher is also a uniquely identifiable entity but
with the aim to fetch or request information about a presentity. There
are access rules that set the rules for how presence information gets
available to watchers.

Presence information consists of a number of elements or presence tuples
as defined in TS 23.141 \[3\]

1 Scope
=======

The present document is the Stage 2 specification for the security
requirements, security architecture, security features and security
mechanisms for the Presence Service, which includes the elements
necessary to realise the requirements in TS 22.141 \[2\] and
TS 23.141 \[3\]. As far as SIP-based procedures are concerned, this
specification refers to TS 33.203 \[4\]. The main content of this
specification is the security for the Ut reference point, which is
HTTP--based, as applied in presence services.

The present document includes information applicable to network
operators, service providers and manufacturers.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.141: \"Presence service; Stage 1\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 23.141: \"Presence service; Architecture and functional
description\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G Security; Access security for IP-based
services\".

\[5\] Void

\[6\] Void

\[7\] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".

\[8\] Void

\[9\] Void

\[10\] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP
network layer security\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA);
Generic Bootstrapping Architecture\".

\[12\] Void

\[13\] Void.

\[14\] Void

\[15\] 3GPP TR 33.919: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA);
System description\".

\[16\] Void

\[17\] Void

\[18\] Void

\[19\] 3GPP TS 33.222: \" Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA);
Access to network application functions using secure hypertext transfer
protocol (HTTPS)\".

\[20\] Void.

\[21\] 3GPP2 S.S0109-A v1.0: \"Generic bootstrapping architecture\"

\[22\] 3GPP2 S.S0114-A v1.0: \"Security mechanisms using GBA\"

\[23\] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh interface based on the Diameter protocol;
Protocol details\"

\[24\] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and network
application function interface (Ua); Protocol details

\[25\] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".

\[26\] 3GPP TS 29.328: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Sh interface;
Signalling flows and message contents\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply.

**Confidentiality:** The property that information is not made available
or disclosed to unauthorised individuals, entities or processes.

**Data integrity:** The property that data has not been altered in an
unauthorised manner.

**Data origin authentication:** The corroboration that the source of
data received is as claimed.

**Entity authentication:** The provision of assurance of the claimed
identity of an entity.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply, TR 21.905 \[1\] contains additional applicable abbreviations:

AKA Authentication and key agreement

AP Authentication Proxy

APN Access Point Name

AS Application Server

BSF Bootstrapping Server Function

CSCF Call Session Control Function

ESP Encapsulating Security Payload

GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture

GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node

GIBA GPRS-IMS-Bundled Authentication

HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol

HTTPS HTTP over TLS

IM IP Multimedia

IMPI IM Private Identity

IMPU IM Public Identity

IMS IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem

IP Internet Protocol

IPsec IP Security

ISIM IM Services Identity Module

NAF Network Application Function

NDS/IP Network Domain Security for IP based Protocols

P-CSCF Proxy Call Session Control Function

PDP Packet Data Protocol

SEG Security Gateway

SIP Session Initiation Protocol

TLS Transport Layer Security

4 Security architecture
=======================

4.1 Overview of the security architecture
-----------------------------------------

An IMS operator using the CSCFs as Watcher Presence proxies and
Presentity Presence proxies may offer the Presence services on top of
the IMS network, see TS 22.141 \[2\]. The access security for IMS is
specified in TS 33.203 \[4\] ensuring that SIP signalling is integrity
protected and that IMS subscribers are authenticated through the use of
IMS AKA. The security termination point from the UE towards the network
is in the P-CSCF utilising IPsec ESP.

A watcher may send a SIP SUBSCRIBE over IMS towards the network, to
subscribe or to fetch presence information, i.e., the Presence Service
supports SIP-based communications for publishing presence information.
The presence information is provided by the Presence Server to the
Watcher Application using SIP NOTIFY along the dialogue setup by
SUBSCRIBE. This traffic is protected in a hop-by-hop fashion as
specified in TS 33.210 \[10\] with the access security provided in
TS 33.203 \[4\].

The Presence Server is responsible for managing presence information on
behalf of the presence entity and it resides in the presentity\'s home
network. Furthermore, the Presence Server provides a subscription
authorization policy that is used to determine which watchers are
allowed to subscribe to certain presence information. Prior to accepting
the subscription requests from watchers, the presence server attempts to
verify the identities of the watchers. Optionally, depending on the
implementation, the Presence Server may authenticate an anonymous
watcher depending on the Subscription Authorization Policy.

A Presence List Server is responsible of storing grouped lists of
watched presentities and enables a Watcher Application to subscribe to
the presence of multiple presentities using a single SIP SUBSCRIBE
transaction. The Presence List Server also stores and enables management
of filters in the presence list, see figure 1.

Figure 1: The Location of the Presence Server and the Presence List
Server from an IMS point of view

4.2 The Ut reference point
--------------------------

A Presence User Agent shall be able to manage the data on the Presence
Server and the Presence List Server over the Ut reference point, see
TS 23.002 \[7\], which is based on HTTP. This reference point is not
covered in TS 33.203 \[4\] and it is mainly this reference point for
Presence use, which is covered in this specification.

NOTE: The term Presence Server refers to both the Presence Server and
the Presence List Server as depicted in figure 1 above. For definitions
of the Presence Server and the Presence List Server see TS 23.141 \[3\].

An overview of the security architecture for Presence Ut reference point
is depicted in figure 2:

![](media/image2.wmf){width="6.689583333333333in"
height="2.923611111111111in"}

Figure 2: An overview of the Security architecture for the Ut reference
point including the support of an Authentication Proxy

5 Security features
===================

5.1 Secure Access to the Presence Server over the Ut reference point
--------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.1.1 Authentication of the subscriber and the presence server

A subscriber shall be authenticated before accessing user data in a
server. The subscriber shall only be able to manipulate data that is
associated with that particular subscriber. A subscriber shall
authenticate the presence server.

Authentication between the subscriber and the presence server shall be
performed as specified in clause 6.1.

### 5.1.2 Confidentiality protection

It shall be possible to apply confidentiality protection over the Ut
reference point.

### 5.1.3 Integrity protection

The Ut reference point shall be integrity protected.

### 5.1.4 Authentication Proxy

The Authentication Proxy may reside between the UE and the Presence
Server as depicted in figure 2. Its use is specified in
TS 33.222 \[19\].

The following requirements apply for the use of an Authentication Proxy
in addition to those in TS 33.222 \[19\]:

\- Authentication Proxy may authenticate the UE using the means of
Generic Bootstrapping Architecture, or it may use other means of
authentication;

\- if the AP uses the GBA for authentication of the UE, then the
procedures shall conform to TS 33.222 \[19\].

Confidentiality and integrity protection may be provided for the
interface between the AP and the AS, using the Zb interface of NDS/IP as
specified in TS 33.222 \[19\].

6 Security Mechanisms for the Ut reference point
================================================

The UE and the AP/Presence Server shall support the TLS version and
profile as specified in clause 5.3 of TS 33.222 \[19\].

6.1 Authentication and key agreement
------------------------------------

### 6.1.1 Authentication of the subscriber

The authentication of the UE may take place in either the Authentication
Proxy, see TS 33.222 \[19\], or the Presence server.

Subscriber authentication can be also performed by the operator using
proprietary or non-3G standardized methods. A UE may contact the
Presence Server/AP for further instructions on authentication
procedures, see initiation of bootstrapping in clause 4.5.1 of
TS 33.220 \[11\].

In case 3GPP authentication mechanisms are used, the authentication of
the subscriber shall be based on the Generic Authentication Architecture
as defined in TR 33.919 \[15\]. Generic Authentication Architecture
enables the use of different authentication methods to be used for the
authentication of the subscriber by using:

\- subscriber certificates; or

\- shared secrets.

For both cases, the authentication of the subscriber shall conform to
the use of the Generic Authentication Architecture, TR 33.919 \[15\],
for access to network application functions using HTTPS, as specified in
TS 33.222 \[19\].

### 6.1.2 Authentication of the AP/Presence Server

Authentication of the AP/Presence Server shall be performed according to
clause 5.3.1.3 of TS 33.222 \[19\].

### 6.1.3 Management of public user identities

The presence server, acting as a NAF in the sense of TS 33.220 \[11\],
may obtain identities related to the subscriber over the Zn reference
point, as part of the GBA user security setting for presence, according
to the policies of the BSF, see clause 4.5.3 of TS 33.220 \[11\]. These
identities may include the IMPI and several IMPUs. The UE shall send its
preferred public user identity in each HTTP request. The Presence server
(or AP) shall then verify that the preferred identity inserted in the
HTTP request by the UE is one of the IMPUs, associated with the HTTP
request, according to clause 6.5.2.4 of TS 33.222 \[19\].

If the presence server sits behind an AP and the verification of the
preferred identity, which was inserted by the UE in the HTTP request,
was successful, then the AP shall verify the value of the preferred
identity of the user in the HTTP request before forwarding it to the
presence server. How the asserted user identity is carried in each HTTP
request is specified in the relevant stage 3 specification.

If there is no preferred identity inserted in the HTTP request, the AP
shall insert a default IMPU from the user profile in the HTTP request,
before forwarding it to the Presence server. If the validation of the UE
inserted preferred identity fails in the AP the HTTP request shall be
dropped.

### 6.1.4 Authentication failures

The handling of authentication failures shall be according to
clause 5.3.1.4 of TS 33.222 \[19\].

6.2 Confidentiality protection
------------------------------

If confidentiality protection is provided over the Ut interface, then it
shall be provided using TLS. The terminal shall in the negotiation phase
include protection alternatives that include at least one alternative
with encryption algorithm support. The terminal and the server shall be
able to resume a previous session and to perform an abbreviated
handshake.

6.3 Integrity protection
------------------------

Integrity protection over the Ut reference point shall be provided using
TLS. The terminal and the server shall be able to resume a previous
session and to perform an abbreviated handshake.

7 Security parameters agreement
===============================

7.1 Set-up of Security parameters
---------------------------------

Security parameters shall be set-up according to clause 5.3.15 of
TS 33.222 \[19\].

7.2 Error cases
---------------

Error cases shall be handled as specified in clause 5.3.1.6 of
TS 33.222 \[19\]. In addition, the AP/Presence Server shall consider the
following cases as a fatal error:

\- if none of the received ciphersuites include encryption and the
policy of the operator stipulates that encryption is required;

\- if the policy of the operator stipulates that encryption is required
and the common set of supported ciphersuites only include key material
less than the number of bits required by the operator for
confidentiality protection.

######### Annex A: Void

######## Annex B (informative): Void 

######## Annex C (normative): Requirements specific to 3GPP2 Access

C.1 General
===========

The present Annex describes how the normative text in the main body of
this specification differs for 3GPP2 Access.

TLS with pre-shared keys as specified in \[22\] is referenced in this
Annex. For this deployment of TLS the same TLS profiling shall apply as
given for PSK TLS in clause 5.4.1 of TS 33.222 \[19\].

C.2 Authentication of the subscriber
====================================

The text in clause 6.1.1 is replaced by the following text.

The authentication of the subscriber shall take place in the Presence
server.

Subscriber authentication may be performed by the operator using
proprietary or non-3G standardized methods. GBA defined in \[21\] may
also be used. The UE may contact the Presence Server for further
instructions on authentication procedures, see initiation of
bootstrapping in 3GPP2 S.S0109 \[21\].

In case GBA is used for authentication, the authentication of the
subscriber shall be based on the Generic Bootstrapping Architecture as
defined in \[21\]. Generic Bootstrapping Architecture enables the use of
different authentication methods to be used for the authentication of
the subscriber by using shared secrets.

The authentication of the subscriber with GBA shall conform to Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture, \[21\], for access to network application
functions using HTTPS, using TLS with pre-shared keys as specified in
\[22\].

C.3 Authentication of the Presence Server
=========================================

The text in clause 6.1.2 is replaced by the following text.

Authentication of the Presence Server shall be performed using TLS with
pre-shared keys as specified in \[22\].

C.4 Management of public user identities
========================================

The text in clause 6.1.3 is replaced by the following text.

The presence server, acting as a NAF in the sense of GBA, may obtain
identities related to the subscriber over the Zn reference point, as
part of the GBA user security setting for presence, according to the
policies of the BSF, see \[21\]. These identities may include the IMPI
and several IMPUs. The UE shall send its preferred public user identity
in each HTTP request. The Presence server shall then verify that the
preferred identity inserted in the HTTP request by the UE is one of the
IMPUs provided by the BSF.

C.5 Authentication failures
===========================

The text in clause 6.1.4 is replaced by the following text.

The handling of authentication failures when using TLS with pre-shared
keys shall be according to \[22\].

C.6 Set-up of Security parameters
=================================

The text in clause 7.1 is replaced by the following text.

Security parameters shall be set-up using TLS with pre-shared keys as
specified in \[22\].

C.7 Error cases
===============

The text in clause 7.2 is replaced by the following text.

Error cases when using TLS with pre-shared keys shall be handled as
specified in \[22\]. In addition, the Presence Server shall consider the
following cases as a fatal error:

\- if none of the received ciphersuites include encryption and the
policy of the operator stipulates that encryption is required;

\- if the policy of the operator stipulates that encryption is required
and the common set of supported ciphersuites only include key material
less than the number of bits required by the operator for
confidentiality protection.

######## Annex D (normative): GPRS-IMS-Bundled Authentication for Ut interface security

A solution similar to GIBA for Gm interface, specified in TS 33.203
\[4\] , may be used to protect HTTP services based on the secure IP
address binding information stored in the HSS as an alternative to the
mechanism specified in the main body of this specification. To achieve
this, the Sh interface described in TS 29.328 \[26\] and TS 29.329
\[23\] shall be used by the Application Server (AS) to fetch secure IP
address binding information from the HSS.

NOTE: The GIBA procedures relies on that only authorized traffic
intended for the particular Ut usage is sent towards the Application
Server.

Authentication can also be performed by an Authentication Proxy (AP)
used to separate the authentication procedure from the application
logic. Provisioning of information to the AP is outside the scope of the
present document.

The GGSN/PGW shall provide the user\'s IP address (or the prefix in the
case of IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration) and IMSI to the HSS when a
PDP/EPS Bearer context is activated. The HSS stores the currently
assigned IP address (or prefix) so that it can be looked up using the
user\'s IMPI and/or IMPU(s). The precise way of the handling of these
identities in the HSS is outside the scope of standardization. The
GGSN/PGW informs the HSS when the PDP/EPS Bearer context is
deactivated/modified so that the stored IP address (or prefix) can be
updated in the HSS.

When the AS/AP receives a HTTP request, it checks that the IP address
(or prefix) in the HTTP request matches the IP address (or prefix) that
was stored in the HSS. The UE must indicate its user identity in the
HTTP requests so that the AS/AP has a reliable identity to use when
querying the HSS.

This approach requires the APN to support GIBA, and that all active
PDP/EPS Bearer contexts, for a single UE, associated with that APN use
the same IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration) at any given time. This approach also requires the
GGSN/PGW to be in the home network and that the GGSN/PGW does not allow
a UE to successfully transmit an IP packet with a source IP address (or
prefix) that is different to the one assigned during PDP/EPS Bearer
context activation.

Since the security of this approach relies on the security of the PS
bearer, a dependency is created between the HTTP service and the PS
bearer, which does not exist with the mechanism specified in the main
body of this specification. This means that the solution described in
this section does not provide as high a degree of access network
independency as the solution in the main body of this specification. In
particular, the solution does not currently support scenarios where HTTP
services are offered over WLAN.

The following steps describe the procedure:

1\) The UE sends the HTTP GET request to the AS. The
\"X-3GPP-Intended-Identity\" header, as defined in TS 24.109 \[24\],
shall be used by the UE to indicate the user identity. The user is
identified by the IMPU that is derived from the IMSI of the subscription
according to the rules in TS 23.003 \[25\].

2\) The AS/AP decides to authenticate the UE based on the secure IP
address binding information from the HSS. This decision might be based
on the fact that GBA is not available. The AS/AP checks whether secure
IP address binding information is available at the AS/AP; if yes, it
proceeds with step 7, if not then it proceeds with step 3.

3\) The AS/AP queries the HSS using User-Data-Request (UDR) over the Sh
interface, and the IMPU is used for User-Identity.

4\) The HSS responds with User-Data-Answer (UDA) including the secure
binding information. If a securely bound IP address is not available in
the HSS, then any incoming HTTP requests at the AS/AP shall be rejected.

5\) The AS/AP stores the secure binding information.

6\) The AS/AP uses the subscriber/notify feature on the Sh interface to
ensure that it is informed about any changes in the secure IP address
binding information in the HSS. If the AS/AP is notified by the HSS
about such a change, it updates the secure IP address binding
information stored in the AS/AP accordingly.

7\) The AS/AP shall check that the IP address (or prefix) from the UE in
HTTP requests matches the IP address (or prefix) provided by the HSS,
otherwise the HTTP request shall be rejected.

The mechanism does not preclude that the HTTP service may run inside a
server-authenticated TLS tunnel established between the UE and the
AS/AP. However, support of TLS in the UE and in the AS/AP is not
mandated in the present document.

The details for the interface between the AS/AP and HSS are described in
TS 29.328 \[26\] and TS 29.329 \[23\] .

######## Annex E (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                               
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                **Old**   **New**
  05-2004              SP-24        SP-040367      \-       \-        Revision marks removed and editorial updated for Presentation for Approval         1.2.1     2.0.0
  06-2004              SP-24        \-             \-       \-        Approved at TSG SA \#24. Published version 6.0.0                                   2.0.0     6.0.0
  09-2004              SP-25        SP-040617      001      \-        ISIM used in GBA                                                                   6.0.0     6.1.0
  09-2004              SP-25        SP-040617      002      \-        Further modifications to TLS profile related text in 33.141                        6.0.0     6.1.0
  09-2004              SP-25        SP-040617      003      \-        Editorial cleanup of TS 33.141                                                     6.0.0     6.1.0
  09-2004              SP-25        SP-040617      004      \-        Clarification on Ut interface                                                      6.0.0     6.1.0
  2005-09              SP-29        SP-050561      0005     \-        Addition of reference to early IMS security TR                                     6.1.0     6.2.0
  2005-12              SP-30        SP‑050654      \-       \-        Raised to Rel-7 to allow reference by TISPAN                                       6.2.0     7.0.0
  2006-06              SP-32        SP-060388      0006     \-        Editorial Changes                                                                  7.0.0     7.1.0
  2008-06              SP-40        SP-080428      0007     4         Changes to support common IMS between 3GPP and 3GPP2                               7.1.0     8.0.0
  2008-09              SP-41        SP-080485      0009     2         New normative Annex on GPRS-IMS-Bundled Authentication for Ut interface security   8.0.0     8.1.0
  2008-09              SP-41        SP-080485      0008     1         Removing annex B of TS 33.141                                                      8.0.0     8.1.0
  2009-12              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)                                                      8.1.0     9.0.0
  2010-10              SP-49        SP-100473      0011               Resolving editor's note on reference                                               9.0.0     9.1.0
  2010-10              SP-49        SP-100482      0010               Adaptation of TS 33.141 to TLS profiling in TS 33.222                              9.1.0     10.0.0
  2012-06              SP-56        SP-120338      0012     1         Update of Annex D for use with EPS                                                 10.0.0    12.0.0
  2016-01              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                                     12.0.0    **13.0.0**
  2017-03              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)                                                     13.0.0    **14.0.0**
  2018-06              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                                     14.0.0    **15.0.0**
  2020-07              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                     15.0.0    **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
