![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.2694444444444444in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[5](#introduction)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[7](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[7](#definitions)

[8](#abbreviations)

[8](#key-establishment-between-a-uicc-hosting-device-and-a-remote-device)

[8](#reference-model)

[9](#network-elements)

[9](#general)

[9](#naf-key-centre)

[9](#key-establishment-architecture-and-reference-points)

[9](#general-1)

[9](#reference-point-ub)

[9](#reference-point-ua)

[10](#reference-point-local-interface)

[10](#requirements-and-principles-for-key-establishment-between-a-uicc-hosting-device-and-a-remote-device)

[10](#general-requirements)

[10](#requirements-on-the-remote-device)

[10](#requirements-on-the-uicc-hosting-device)

[11](#requirements-on-the-uicc)

[11](#requirements-on-the-naf-key-centre)

[11](#requirements-on-ks_local_device-key-and-associated-parameters-handling-in-remote-device)

[12](#requirements-on-ks_local_device-key-and-associated-parameters-handling-in-uicc-hosting-device)

[12](#procedures)

[12](#initiation-of-key-establishment-between-a-uicc-hosting-device-and-a-remote-device)

[13](#key-establishment-procedure)

[17](#annex-a-normative-key-derivation-function-definition)

[17](#a.1-platform-specific-key-ks_local_device-ks_local_device-key-derivation-in-key-establishment)

[17](#a.2-input-parameters-for-ks_local_device-key-derivation)

[18](#annex-b-normative-http-based-key-request-procedure)

[18](#b.1-introduction)

[18](#b.2-key-request-procedure)

[18](#b.2.1-key-request)

[19](#b.2.2-error-situations)

[20](#annex-c-informative-signalling-flows-for-key-request-procedure)

[20](#c.1-introduction)

[20](#c.2-signalling-flow-demonstrating-a-successful-key-request-procedure)

[23](#annex-d-normative-xml-schema-for-key-request-and-key-response)

[23](#d.1-introduction)

[23](#d.2-key-request-format)

[23](#d.2.1-data-format)

[23](#d.2.2-example)

[24](#d.3-key-response-format)

[24](#d.3.1-data-format)

[24](#d.3.2-example)

[25](#annex-e-normative-tls-profiles)

[26](#annex-f-informative-application-specific-key-ks_local_device_appl)

[26](#f.1-example-of-ks_local_device_appl-key-derivation-in-key-establishment)

[27](#annex-g-informative-application-specific-key-ks_local_device_appl-key-derivation-function-definition)

[27](#g.1-ks_local_device_appl-key-derivation-in-key-establishment)

[27](#g.2-input-parameters-for-ks_local_device_appl-key-derivation)

[28](#annex-h-informative-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2
References 3 Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Abbreviations 4 Key Establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a
Remote Device 4.1 Reference model 4.2 Network elements 4.2.1 General
4.2.2 NAF Key Centre 4.3 Key establishment architecture and reference
points 4.3.1 General 4.3.2 Reference point Ub 4.3.3 Reference point Ua
4.3.4 Reference point Local interface 4.4 Requirements and principles
for key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device
4.4.1 General requirements 4.4.2 Requirements on the Remote Device 4.4.3
Requirements on the UICC Hosting Device 4.4.4 Requirements on the UICC
4.4.5 Requirements on the NAF Key Centre 4.4.6 Requirements on
Ks\_local\_device key and associated parameters handling in Remote
Device 4.4.7 Requirements on Ks\_local\_device key and associated
parameters handling in UICC Hosting Device 4.5 Procedures 4.5.1
Initiation of key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a
Remote Device 4.5.2 Key establishment procedure Annex A (normative): Key
Derivation Function definition A.1 Platform specific key
(Ks\_local\_device): Ks\_local\_device key derivation in key
establishment A.2 Input parameters for Ks\_local\_device key derivation
Annex B (normative): HTTP based key request procedure B.1 Introduction
B.2 Key request procedure B.2.1 Key request B.2.2 Error situations Annex
C (informative): Signalling flows for key request procedure C.1
Introduction C.2 Signalling flow demonstrating a successful key request
procedure Annex D (normative): XML schema for Key Request and Key
Response D.1 Introduction D.2 Key Request Format D.2.1 Data Format D.2.2
Example D.3 Key Response Format D.3.1 Data Format D.3.2 Example Annex E
(normative): TLS profiles Annex F (informative): Application specific
key (Ks\_local\_device\_appl) F.1 Example of Ks\_local\_device\_appl key
derivation in key establishment Annex G (informative): Application
specific key (Ks\_local\_device\_appl): Key Derivation Function
definition G.1 Ks\_local\_device\_appl key derivation in key
establishment G.2 Input parameters for Ks\_local\_device\_appl key
derivation Annex H (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

The need to establish a secure channel between a UICC Hosting Device and
a Remote Device connected via a local interface has been identified by
the Personal Network Management work (see TS 22.259 \[4\]), in order to
protect the communication between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote
Device.

This document describes key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device
and a Remote Device.

1 Scope
=======

The present document describes the security features and mechanisms to
provision a shared key between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device
connected via a local interface. The shared secret is then intended to
be used to secure the interface between the Remote Device and the UICC
hosting device. Candidate applications to use this key establishment
mechanism include but are not restricted to Personal Network Management
(see TS 22.259 \[4\]).

The scope of this specification includes an architecture overview and
the detailed procedure how to establish the shared key between the UICC
Hosting Device and the Remote Device. This is different from the
Technical Specification TS 33.110 \[5\] that describes an architecture
overview and the detailed procedure how to establish the shared key
between the UICC itself and the terminal hosting the UICC. The use cases
utilizing the mechanisms described in this specification are seen to be
different to the use cases where \"Key establishment between a UICC and
a terminal\", PSK TLS as specified in TS 33.310 \[19\], is utilized.

The solution described in this document is built on the existing
infrastructure defined in \"GBA\", TS 33.220 \[3\].

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Terminals; UICC-terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA);
Generic Bootstrapping Architecture\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.259: \"Service Requirements for Personal Network
Management; Stage 1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 33.110: \"Technical Specification Group Services and
System Aspects; Key establishment between a UICC and a terminal\".

\[6\] Void.

\[7\] Void.

\[8\] Void.

\[9\] 3GPP TS 29.109: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Zh
and Zn Interfaces based on the Diameter protocol; Stage 3\".

\[10\] 3GPP TR 33.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Recommendations for
trusted open platforms\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification;
Core network protocols; Stage 3\".

\[12\] NIST, FIPS PUB 180-2: \"Secure Hash Standard (SHS)\".

\[13\] IETF RFC 4634 (2006): US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and
HMAC-SHA).

\[14\] IETF RFC 2104 (1997): \"HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
Authentication\".

\[15\] TCG Mobile Phone Specifications,
https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/mobilephone.

\[16\] TCG Trusted Network Connect (TNC) Specifications,
<https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/TNC>.

\[17\] IETF RFC 2616 (1999): \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol \--
HTTP/1.1\".

\[18\] Void.

\[19\] 3GPP TS 33.310: \" Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication
Framework (AF)\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**NAF Key Centre: Dedicated** NAF in charge of performing the key
establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device.

**UICC Hosting Device: The entity, which is physically connected to the
UICC used for key establishment between UICC Hosting Device and Remote
Device. The UICC Hosting Device may be the MT or the ME.**

**Remote Device**: A Remote Device is physically separated from the UICC
Hosting Device (e.g. PNE as defined in TS 22.259 \[4\]). The Remote
Device may host a UICC by itself but this UICC is not involved in the
key establishment between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device.
For the purposes of the present document, the term Remote Device denotes
a trusted device that can establish a shared key with a UICC Hosting
Device.

NOTE 1: The definition of trusted devices is out of the scope of the
present document. It is assumed that the home network can decide whether
a Remote Device is trusted or not.

**Device\_ID:** It identifies uniquely the Remote Device. The Device\_ID
of a ME or MT is the IMEI and shall be encoded using BCD coding as
defined in section 10.5.1.4 of TS 24.008  \[11\].

NOTE 2: In case that the Remote Device is not a ME or MT the definition
of the type of Device\_IDs is out of the scope of the present document.

**Local interface**: The interface between the Remote Device and the
UICC Hosting Device is named the local interface.

**Appl\_ID**: It uniquely identifies an application in the UICC Hosting
Device and Remote Device. The Appl\_ID is an octet string.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

> B-TID Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier
>
> BSF Bootstrapping Server Function

GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture

GBA\_ME ME-based GBA

GBA\_U GBA with UICC-based enhancements

HSS Home Subscriber System

KDF Key Derivation Function

Ks\_ext\_NAF Derived key in GBA\_U

Ks\_NAF Derived key in GBA\_ME

Ks\_(ext)\_NAF Combined abbreviation denoting Ks\_NAF in case of GBA\_ME
and Ks\_ext\_NAF in case of GBA\_U

Ks\_local\_device Derived key, which is shared between a UICC hosting
device and a Remote Device

Ks\_local\_device\_appl Derived key, which is shared between an
application residing in the UICC hosting device and the Remote Device

MAC Message Authentication Code

NAF Network Application Function

PNE Personal Network Element

SLF Subscriber Locator Function

USS User Security Setting

4 Key Establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device
=====================================================================

4.1 Reference model
-------------------

A Remote Device, which for example could be a PNE as defined in
TS 22.259 \[4\] or any other Remote Device containing a Ua application
according to this specification, is connected to a UICC Hosting Device,
via a local interface. The communication over the local interface could
take place via for example Bluetooth, USB, IR or a serial cable.

GBA\_ME or GBA\_U is used to provision a shared key (i.e.
Ks\_local\_device) between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote
Device. The shared key (i.e. Ks\_local\_device) is derived by the UICC
Hosting Device and the NAF Key Centre from the Ks\_ext\_NAF or Ks\_NAF
residing in the UICC Hosting Device and NAF Key Centre after a complete
GBA run according to TS 33.220 \[3\].The NAF Key Centre securely
delivers Ks\_local\_device to the Remote Device through a TLS tunnel,
which is established between the NAF Key Centre and the Remote Device.
The Ks\_local\_device can then be used to secure the local interface
between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device.

Figure 4.1 shows a network model of the entities that utilize the
bootstrapped secrets, and the reference points used between them.

NOTE: The Remote Device might not have a direct connection to the NAF.
In this case the Remote Device can connect to the NAF Key Centre via the
UICC hosting device.

Figure 4.1: High level reference model

4.2 Network elements
--------------------

### 4.2.1 General

This document is based on the architecture specified in TS 33.220 \[3\].
The Network elements that are not explained in this section can be found
in TS 33.220 \[3\].

### 4.2.2 NAF Key Centre

The NAF Key Centre is the NAF in charge of performing the Key
Establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device.

4.3 Key establishment architecture and reference points
-------------------------------------------------------

### 4.3.1 General

This document is based on the architecture specified in TS 33.220 \[3\].
The Reference Points that are not explained in this section can be found
in TS 33.220 \[3\] and TS 29.109 \[9\] (including GAA Service Type Code
for this specification).

### 4.3.2 Reference point Ub

The reference point Ub is implemented between the UICC Hosting Device
and the BSF as described in TS 33.220 \[3\]. The UICC Hosting Device
runs the HTTP Digest AKA protocol. This allows the UICC/UICC Hosting
Device and the BSF to generate the bootstrapping key Ks.

### 4.3.3 Reference point Ua

The reference point Ua is used to deliver Ks\_local\_device and the
associated parameters to the Remote Device.

### 4.3.4 Reference point Local interface

The reference point Local interface is used to initiate the Key
establishment procedure between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote
Device. The UICC Hosting Device sends a B-TID together with associated
parameters on this interface to allow the Remote Device to receive a
Ks\_local\_device key from the NAF Key Centre.

4.4 Requirements and principles for key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.4.1 General requirements

The following requirements and principles are applicable to the
procedure for key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a
Remote Device:

\- The UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device shall be able to
establish a shared key (i.e. Ks\_local\_device);

\- The UICC Hosting Device shall be trusted;

NOTE 1: The definition of trusted UICC Hosting Device is out of scope of
the specification. The UICC Hosting Device could be compliant to
requirements defined in TCG Mobile Phone specifications \[15\] or 3GPP
TR 33.905 "Recommendations for Trusted Open Platforms" \[10\].

\- The Remote Device shall be trusted;

NOTE 2: The definition of trusted Remote Device is out of scope of the
specification. The Remote Device could be compliant to requirements
defined in TCG specifications or TR 33.905 \[10\].

\- The shared key to establish between the UICC Hosting Device and the
Remote Device (i.e. Ks\_local\_device) shall not be exchanged on the
interface between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device;

\- The Remote Device and the network shall be able to authenticate each
other;

\- The server implementing the key establishment function (i.e. the NAF
Key Centre) needs to be trusted by the home operator to handle the
authentication parameters and the shared key;

\- The home network shall be able to control whether this Remote Device
is authorized to establish a shared key with the UICC Hosting Device;

\- The procedure for the key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device
and a Remote Device shall be access independent;

\- To the extent possible, existing protocols and infrastructure should
be reused.

### 4.4.2 Requirements on the Remote Device

The Remote Device shall support TLS with certificate-based mutual
authentication and TLS Extensions as defined in TS 33.310 \[19\], Annex
E, in which case the Remote Device shall be equipped with a valid Client
Certificate, or the Remote Device shall support shared key based mutual
authentication using PSK-TLS as defined in TS 33.310 \[19\], Annex E, in
which case the Remote Device shall be equipped with a valid pre-shared
key.

NOTE: Configuration of certificates and shared secrets is out of scope
of the present document.

It may be possible to configure the NAF\_ID of the NAF Key Centre in the
Remote Device.

### 4.4.3 Requirements on the UICC Hosting Device

The UICC Hosting Device shall implement GBA\_ME and GBA\_U as defined in
TS 33.220 \[3\].

The UICC Hosting Device shall be capable of deriving the
Ks\_local\_device key from the Ks\_(ext)\_NAF key.

It shall be possible to configure the NAF\_ID of the NAF Key Centre in
the UICC Hosting Device.

NOTE: The home operator could configure the NAF\_ID of the NAF Key
Centre by utilising e.g. OMA Device Management.

### 4.4.4 Requirements on the UICC

The UICC may implement GBA\_U as defined in TS 33.220 \[3\].

It shall be possible to configure the NAF\_ID of the NAF Key Centre on
the UICC.

NOTE: The home operator could configure the NAF\_ID of the NAF Key
Centre by utilising e.g. OTA commands.

### 4.4.5 Requirements on the NAF Key Centre

The NAF Key Centre shall support TLS with certificate-based mutual
authentication, TLS Extensions and shared key based mutual
authentication using PSK-TLS as defined in TS 33.310 \[19\], Annex E.

NOTE 1: Configuration of certificates and shared secrets is out of scope
of the present document.

The NAF Key Centre shall be capable of determining whether a Remote
Device is trusted or not.

The NAF Key Centre shall be capable of determining whether the Remote
Device is authorized to establish a shared key.

The NAF Key Centre shall implement GBA\_ME and GBA\_U as defined in
TS 33.220 \[3\].

The NAF Key Centre dedicated to the Key Establishment Mechanism may be
located in the Home Network.

NOTE2: If the NAF Key Centre is not located in the home network, then
the mobile network operator can not control directly the handing out of
credentials from the NAF Key Centre. Therefore, the network hosting the
NAF Key Centre and the home network need to have a strong trust
relationship with the NAF Key Centre provider. The operator can use USS
for control information for the NAF Key Centre.

If the NAF Key Centre is also offering his services to subscribers that
are not subscribed to the same operator that hosts the NAF Key Centre,
then the NAF Key Centre shall support USS.

If a network operator intends to support NAF Key Centre in a visited
network for his subscribers, then the UE or the Remote Device shall be
equipped with a TLS certificate of the NAF Key Centre in the visited
network signed by the home operator or cross certification as outlined
in TS 33.310  \[19\] may be used. The NAF Key Centre in a visited
network shall be able to validate the TLS certificate presented by the
Remote Device.

Editor's Note: The usage of PSK TLS for the visited network case is for
further study and evaluation.

The NAF Key Centre shall be capable of deriving the Ks\_local\_device
key from the Ks\_(ext)\_NAF key.

### 4.4.6 Requirements on Ks\_local\_device key and associated parameters handling in Remote Device

One key (i.e. Ks\_local\_device) shall be established per UICC Hosting
Device and Remote Device pair. One established Ks\_local\_device key
shall only be shared between one specific UICC Hosting Device and one
specific Remote Device.

NOTE: Further key derivations from the Ks\_local\_device are allowed to
be used at e.g. application layer, to be able to differentiate the keys
to be used by different applications (see example in Annex F).

The Remote Device receives the Ks\_local\_device key and the lifetime of
the Ks\_local\_device key from the NAF Key Centre on a secured
interface.

The Remote Device shall delete the Ks\_local\_device key and the
corresponding key lifetime when at least one of the conditions below is
met:

1 the key lifetime of the Ks\_local\_device key expires;

2 the Remote Device discovers that the UICC Hosting Device does not
share the same Ks\_local\_device key any more due to e.g. deletion.

### 4.4.7 Requirements on Ks\_local\_device key and associated parameters handling in UICC Hosting Device

One key (i.e. Ks\_local\_device) shall be established per UICC Hosting
Device and Remote Device pair. One established Ks\_local\_device key
shall only be shared between one specific UICC Hosting Device and one
specific Remote Device.

NOTE: Further key derivations from the Ks\_local\_device are allowed to
be used at e.g. application layer, to be able to differentiate the keys
to be used by different applications. However, this is out of the scope
in this specification.

The lifetime of Ks\_local\_device key in the UICC Hosting Device shall
not exceed the lifetime of the Ks\_(ext)\_NAF key.

The UICC Hosting Device shall delete the Ks\_local\_device key and the
corresponding parameters when the key lifetime of the Ks\_local\_device
expires.

The UICC Hosting Device shall handle the Ks key and the NAF specific
keys (i.e. Ks\_NAF, Ks\_ext\_NAF and Ks\_local\_device) and related
parameters as described in clause 4.4.11 of TS 33.220 \[3\]. This means
that the Ks\_local\_device key shall be handled in the same way as the
Ks\_(ext)\_NAF key is handled in clause 4.4.11 of TS 33.220 \[3\], i.e.
as a NAF specific key.

4.5 Procedures
--------------

### 4.5.1 Initiation of key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device

If the Remote Device has a Ks\_local\_device key stored for a particular
UICC Hosting Device, then the Remote Device should attempt to use the
Ks\_local\_device key or the derived key material from it, with the UICC
Hosting Device. If this fails due to the UICC Hosting Device not sharing
the same Ks\_local\_device key, then the Remote Device shall initiate a
new request to the UICC Hosting Device to initiate a new key
establishment procedure as described in clause 4.5.2 in order to
establish a new Ks\_local\_device key.

If the UICC Hosting Device has a Ks\_local\_device stored for a
particular Remote Device then the UICC Hosting Device should attempt to
use the Ks\_local\_device key or the derived key material from it, with
the Remote Device. The UICC Hosting Device does not know whether the
Remote Device has deleted the Ks\_local\_device key or not. If the UICC
Hosting Device receives an error due to the Remote Device not sharing
the same Ks\_local device key, then the UICC Hosting Device should
trigger the Remote Device to send a new request to the UICC Hosting
Device to establish a new Ks\_local device key.

NOTE: The UICC Hosting Device needs a unique way to distinguish or map
different Ks\_local\_device keys to different Remote Devices and vice
versa. This is out of the scope of the present document.

### 4.5.2 Key establishment procedure

Figure 4-2: Key establishment procedure

1\. The Remote Device has no valid Ks\_local\_device key stored.

2\. If the Remote Device has no list of NAF\_ID\'s with NAF Key Centre
functionality, then the Remote Device sends a request to the UICC
Hosting Device to send a list of available NAF\_ID\'s with NAF Key
Centre functionality stored in the UICC Hosting Device. If the Remote
Device has such a list and knows which NAF-ID to take, it immediately
proceeds with step 5.

3\. The UICC Hosting Device sends its list of available NAF-ID\'s with
NAF Key Centre functionality to the Remote Device.

4\. The Remote Device selects a NAF-ID with NAF Key Centre functionality
from the list provided by the UICC Hosting Device or proposes a NAF-ID
stored in it\'s own memory.

5\. The Remote Device sends a request to the UICC Hosting Device for a
B-TID. The Remote Device includes parameters NAF\_ID in order for the
UICC Hosting Device to be able to calculate a new Ks\_(ext)\_NAF.

*6. If the UICC Hosting Device does not have a valid B-TID, then* the
UICC Hosting Device performs a new bootstrapping procedure. *The UICC
Hosting Device asks for a complete GBA run: a GBA bootstrapping
procedure and a GBA\_ME -- or a GBA\_U - NAF Derivation procedure*.

7\. When the GBA run has been completed then the UICC provides a
Ks\_ext\_NAF key to the UICC Hosting Device if GBA\_U has been used; or
the CK and IK to the UICC Hosting Device if GBA\_ME has been used. If
GBA\_ME has been used, then the UICC Hosting Device further derives Ks
and Ks\_NAF.

8\. The UICC Hosting Device sends a response including the B-TID and
NAF\_ID to the Remote Device.

9\. The Remote Device and the NAF Key Centre establish a secure tunnel.
The secure tunnel may be a HTTPS tunnel with certificate based mutual
authentication (TLS according to TS 33.310 \[19\], Annex E) or based on
a shared key based mutual authentication between the Remote Device and
the NAF Key Centre (PSK TLS according to TS 33.310 \[19\], Annex E).

NOTE 1: One potential way to reach a trusted state is if the Remote
Device is compliant with the requirements defined in TCG (Trusted
Computing Group) MPWG (Mobile Phone Working Group) Mobile Phone
Specifications \[15\]. In PC-based TCG technology \[16\], HTTPS tunnel
establishment can be bound to the trust status of the Remote Device,
through the attestations of relevant trusted engine of the Remote
Device. Thus, HTTPS tunnel establishment may in the future be possible
only if the Remote Device is in a trusted state.

The psk\_identity\_hint shall be used by the server to indicate to the
PSK TLS client which PSK to use. The pre-shared key is pre-administrated
to the Remote Device and NAF Key Centre.

NOTE 2: If other PSKs are allowed, then the psk\_identity\_hint needs to
be specified in the relevant key specifications.

If several PSKs are allowed, then the different hints are separated by
semi-colon The usage of the psk\_identity\_hint in PSK TLS handshake is
out of scope of the present document.

10\. The Remote Device sends a \"service request\" message to the NAF
Key Centre node in the mobile operator network. The message is sent
within the secure tunnel.

The request contains the following payload: the identity (B\_TID) and
the Remote Device identifier (Device\_ID) requiring the establishment of
key Ks\_local\_device.

*11. If the* Device\_ID is IMEI*, then* the NAF Key Centre shall check
if the Device\_ID is blocked (blacklisted) and if so, it shall not
proceed with the key establishment procedure but responds with an
appropriate error code and terminates the secure connection with the
remote device. *If the Device\_ID is not IMEI, then* the NAF Key Centre
should, if applicable, check if the Device\_ID is blocked (blacklisted)
and if so, it shall not proceed with the key establishment procedure but
responds with an appropriate error code and terminates the secure
connection with the remote device.

NOTE 3: Details of how blacklisting is implemented are out of scope of
the present document.

12\. The NAF Key Centre contacts the BSF and sends the identity B\_TID
in a credential request.

13\. The BSF returns the shared secret Ks\_(ext)\_NAF to the NAF Key
Centre.

14\. The NAF Key Centre shall behave as follows:

a\) If the NAF Key *Centre* has requested a USS, and if the USS
indicates to the NAF Key *Centre* that the key establishment procedure
is not allowed for the targeted user, then the NAF Key *Centre* shall
respond with appropriate error code and terminate the secure connection
with the Remote Device.

b\) The NAF Key Centre calculates the Ks\_local\_device key from the
Ks\_(ext)\_NAF, B-TID, NAF\_ID and Device\_ID and stores it locally. The
NAF Key *Centre* associates a key lifetime to the derived key
Ks\_local\_device.

15\. The NAF Key Centre sends within HTTPS tunnel a request response
message to the Remote Device with the following payload: B-TID,
Ks\_local\_device, Key Lifetime.

16\. The Remote Device stores Ks\_local\_device and associated Key
Lifetime.

17\. The Remote Device sends a response to the UICC Hosting Device to
indicate that the key establishment procedure with NAF Key Centre is now
completed. The Remote Device sends the NAF\_ID corresponding to the NAF
Key Centre, Device-ID, B-TID and the Key lifetime to the UICC Hosting
Device. The Remote Device also includes a MAC which is computed as MAC =
HMAC-SHA-256(Ks\_local\_device, NAF-ID \|\| Device-ID \|\| B-TID)
truncated to 16 octets, where HMAC-SHA-256 with truncation is defined in
\[12\], \[13\], \[14\].

18\. The UICC Hosting Device retrieves the Ks\_(ext)\_NAF associated
with the received NAF\_ID and B-TID. If the requested association is
authorised, then the UICC Hosting Device derives Ks\_local\_device key.
The UICC Hosting Device calculates the Ks\_local\_device key from the
Ks\_(ext)\_NAF, B-TID, NAF\_ID and Device\_ID and stores it locally (see
Annex A).

The UICC Hosting Device verifies the MAC value received from the Remote
Device by computing MAC\' = HMAC-SHA-256(Ks\_local\_device, NAF\_ID \|\|
Device\_ID \|\| B-TID) truncated to 16 octets. If the MAC\' does not
equal MAC, then the UICC Hosting Device terminates the key agreement
procedure and returns a MAC verification failure message in response to
the Ks\_local\_device derivation request.

19\. If MAC\'=MAC then the UICC Hosting Device stores Ks\_local\_device
and associated parameters as Device\_ID. The UICC Hosting Device then
sends to the Remote Device a Ks\_local\_device derivation response
containing a MAC of the ASCII-encoded string \"verification successful\"
using the key Ks\_local\_device and the MAC algorithm HMAC-SHA-256
\[13\] truncated to 16 octets \[14\].

######## Annex A (normative): Key Derivation Function definition

A.1 Platform specific key (Ks\_local\_device): Ks\_local\_device key derivation in key establishment
====================================================================================================

The description of this key derivation function KDF and input parameter
encoding can be found in TS 33.220 \[3\]. The key derivation function
KDF in this document shall be implemented as defined in TS 33.220 \[3\].

A.2 Input parameters for Ks\_local\_device key derivation
=========================================================

In the key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote
Device, the input parameters for the key derivation function shall be
the following:

\- FC = 0x01,

\- P0 = Device\_ID,

\- L0 = length of Device ID is variable (not greater than 10 octets),

\- P1 = B-TID,

\- L1 = length of B-TID is variable (not greater than 65535),

\- P2 = NAF\_ID,

\- L2 = length of NAF\_ID is variable (not greater than 65535).

The input parameter Key to the key derivation function defined in
TS 33.220 \[3\] shall be the Ks\_ext\_NAF or the Ks\_NAF key.

######## Annex B (normative): HTTP based key request procedure

B.1 Introduction
================

Clause 4.5 specifies the HTTP based Key request procedure between the
NAF Key Centre and the Remote Device. It specifies how the Remote Device
retrieves the Ks\_local\_device key from the NAF Key Centre together
with some associated parameters.

B.2 Key request procedure
=========================

This clause contains the following HTTP based procedures:

\- Key request;

B.2.1 Key request 
-----------------

The Remote Device shall generate a request for Key Request according to
clause 4.5.2. The Remote Device shall send the Key Request to the NAF
Key Centre in the HTTP payload in a HTTP POST request. The Request-URI
shall indicate the type of the message, i.e. Key Request. Upon
successful request, NAF Key Centre shall return indication of success
together with the Ks\_local\_device key.

The Remote Device populates the HTTP POST request as follows:

\- the HTTP version shall be 1.1 which is specified in RFC 2616 \[17\];

\- the base of the Request-URI shall contain the full NAF Key Centre key
establishmentURI (e.g. http://nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234);

\- the Request-URI shall contain an URI parameter \"requesttype\" that
shall be set to \"key-request-devicekey\", i.e. Request-URI takes the
form of \"/keyestablishment?requesttype=key-request-devicekey\";

\- the Remote Device may add additional URI parameters to the
Request-URI;

\- the HTTP header Content-Type shall be the MIME type of the payload,
i.e. \"application/keyest-devicekeyrequest+xml\". The XML schema of the
payload is specified in Annex D.1 in this specification;

\- the Remote Device may add additional HTTP headers to the HTTP POST
request.

The Remote Device sends the HTTP POST to the NAF Key Centre. The NAF Key
Centre checks that the HTTP POST is valid, and extracts the Key request
for further processing. The NAF Key Centre shall verify that the Remote
Device is authorized to use this service according to clause 4.5.2.

Upon successful authorization verification, the NAF Key Centre shall
return the HTTP 200 OK to the Remote Device.

The NAF Key Centre shall populate HTTP response as follows:

\- the HTTP status code in the HTTP status line shall be 200;

\- the HTTP header Content-Type shall be the MIME type of the payload,
i.e. \"application/keyest-keyresponse+xml\". The XML schema of the
payload is specified in Annex D.2 in this specification;

The NAF Key Centre shall send the HTTP response to the Remote Device.
The Remote Device shall check that the HTTP response is valid.

B.2.2 Error situations
----------------------

The key request procedure may not be successful for multiple reasons.
The error cases are indicated by using 4xx and 5xx HTTP Status Codes as
defined in RFC 2616 \[17\]. The 4xx status code indicates that the
Remote Device seems to have erred, and the 5xx status code indicates
that the NAF Key Centre is aware that it has erred. Possible error
situations during key establishment and their mappings to HTTP Status
Codes are described in table B.2.2.1.

NOTE: In table B.2.2.1, the \"Description\" column describes the error
situation in NAF Key Centre. The \"NAF Key Centre error\" column
describes the typical reason for the error.

The NAF Key Centre shall send the HTTP response to the Remote Device.
The Remote Device shall check that the HTTP response is valid.

Table B.2.2-1: HTTP Status Codes used for key request errors

  ------------------ ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  HTTP Status Code   HTTP Error                   Remote Device should repeat the request   Description                                                                                                  NAF Key Centre error
  400                Bad Request                  No                                        Request could not be understood                                                                              Request was missing, or malformed
  401                Unauthorized                 Yes                                       Not used by NAF Key Centre                                                                                   \-
  402                Payment Required             No                                        Not used by NAF Key Centre                                                                                   \-
  403                Forbidden                    No                                        NAF Key Centre understood the request, but is refusing to fulfil it                                          The request was valid, but Remote Device is not allowed to use this service
  404                Not Found                    No                                        NAF Key Centre has not found anything matching the Request‑URI                                               The Request-URI was malformed and NAF Key Centre cannot fulfil the request
  405                Method not allowed           No                                        The method specified in the Request-Line is not allowed for the resource identified by the Request-URI.      
  406 to 417         \*                           No                                        Not used by NAF Key Centre                                                                                   \-
  500                Internal Server Error        No                                        Not used by NAF Key Centre                                                                                   \-
  501                Not Implemented              No                                        NAF Key Centre does not support the requested functionality                                                  The server does not contain particular NAF Key Centre service requested
  502                Bad Gateway                  No                                        Not used by NAF Key Centre                                                                                   \-
  503                Service Unavailable          Yes                                       NAF Key Centre service is currently unavailable                                                              NAF Key Centre is temporarily unavailable, Remote Device may repeat the request after delay indicated by \"Retry-After\" header
  504                Gateway Timeout              No                                        The server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, did not receive a timely response from the upstream server   The NAF Key Centre did not get response over Zn interface.
  505                HTTP Version Not Supported   No                                        NAF Key Centre does not support the HTTP protocol version that was used in the request line                  Remote Device should use HTTP/1.1 version with NAF Key Centre
  ------------------ ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

######## Annex C (informative): Signalling flows for key request procedure

C.1 Introduction
================

This annex gives examples of signalling flows for using HTTP. It is
assumed that TLS with certificate based mutual-authentication or PSK-TLS
has been established before the HTTP signalling flow described in this
section takes place.

The Remote Device requests a Ks\_local\_device key from the NAF Key
Centre and an example of the signalling flow of the key request
procedure between the Remote Device and the NAF Key Centre is given in
clause C.2.

C.2 Signalling flow demonstrating a successful key request procedure
====================================================================

The signalling flow in figure C.2-1 describes the generic message
exchange between a Remote Device and an NAF Key Centre using HTTP. The
HTTP client application resides in the Remote Device.

![](media/image5.wmf){width="5.997916666666667in"
height="4.397222222222222in"}

Figure C.2-1: Successful key request procedure between Remote Device and
NAF Key Centre

**1. Key request (Remote Device to NAF Key Centre)** - see example in
table C.2-1

The Remote Device sends an HTTP request to the NAF Key Centre containing
a Key request.

Table C.2‑1: Key request (Remote Device to NAF Key Centre)

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| POST /keyestablishment?requesttype=key-request-devicekey HTTP/1.1 |
|                                                                   |
| Host: nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234                                 |
|                                                                   |
| Content-Type: application/keyest-devicekeyrequest+xml             |
|                                                                   |
| Content-Length: (\...)                                            |
|                                                                   |
| User-Agent: KeyestAgent; Release-7                                |
|                                                                   |
| Date: Thu, 27 June 2007 10:50:35 GMT                              |
|                                                                   |
| Accept: \*/\*                                                     |
|                                                                   |
| Referrer: http://nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234/service              |
|                                                                   |
| \<Key request BLOB\>                                              |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Request-URI:** The Request-URI (the URI that follows the method name,
\"POST\", in the first line) indicates the resource of this POST
request. The Request-URI contains the parameter \"requesttype\" which is
set to \"key-request-devicekey\" to indicate to the NAFKey Centre the
desired request type, i.e. Remote Device requests for a
Ks\_local\_device key.

**Host:** Specifies the Internet host and port number of the NAF Key
Centre, obtained from the original URI given by referring resource.

**Content-Type:** Contains the media type
\"application/keyest-devicekeyrequest+xml\", i.e.Key request.

**Content-Length:** Indicates the size of the entity-body, in decimal
number of OCTETs, sent to the recipient.

**User-Agent:** Contains information about the user agent originating
the request and the release of it.

**Date:** Represents the date and time at which the message was
originated.

**Accept:** Media types which are acceptable for the response.

**Referrer:** Allows the user agent to specify the address (URI) of the
resource from which the URI for the NAF Key Centre was obtained.

2\. **Validation and blacklisting check**

The NAF Key Centre will also verify that the DNS name in the realm
attribute matches the NAF Key Centre hostname. If the conversation is
taking place inside a server-authenticated TLS tunnel, the NAF Key
Centre will also verify that this DNS name is the same as that of the
TLS server.

The NAF Key Centre verifies that the Remote Device is authorized to use
this service as described in clause 4.5.2. If the authorization
succeeds, the incoming client-payload request is taken in for further
processing.

If the NAF Key Centre does not have the NAF specific key material
(Ks\_NAF or Ks\_ext\_NAF), then the NAF Key Centre retrieves that and
one or more user security setting (USS) from the BSF. For detailed
signalling flows see 3GPP TS 29.109 \[9\].

3\. **Zn: NAF Key Centre specific key procedure**

NAF Key Centre retrieves the NAF specific key material and IMPI of the
user.

For detailed signalling flows see TS 29.109 \[9\].

4\. Key **processing in the NAF Key Centre**

NAF Key Centre further derives the key establishment specific key
material Ks\_local\_device as specified in Annex A.

5\. **Response indicating success (NAF Key Centre to Remote Device)** -
see example in table C.2-2

The NAF Key Centre sends 200 OK response to the Remote Device to
indicate the success of the Key request.

Table C.2-2: Key response (NAF Key Centre to Remote Device)

+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| POST /keyestablishment?requesttype=key-response-devicekey HTTP/1.1 |
|                                                                    |
| Host: nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234                                  |
|                                                                    |
| Content-Type: application/keyest-devicekeyresponse+xml             |
|                                                                    |
| Content-Length: (\...)                                             |
|                                                                    |
| Date: Thu, 27 June 2007 10:50:35 GMT                               |
|                                                                    |
| Accept: \*/\*                                                      |
|                                                                    |
| Referrer: http://nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234/service               |
|                                                                    |
| \<Key request BLOB\>                                               |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Request-URI:** The Request-URI (the URI that follows the method name,
\"POST\", in the first line) indicates the resource of this POST
request. The Request-URI contains the parameter \"requesttype\" which is
set to \"key-response-devicekey\" to indicate to the Remote Device the
desired response type, i.e. UICC Hosting Device responses with a
Ks\_local\_device key.

**Host:** Specifies the Internet host and port number of the NAF Key
Centre, obtained from the original URI given by referring resource.

**Content-Type:** Contains the media type
\"application/keyest-devicekeyresponse+xml\", i.e.Key response.

**Content-Length:** Indicates the size of the entity-body, in decimal
number of OCTETs, sent to the recipient.

**Date:** Represents the date and time at which the message was
originated.

**Accept:** Media types which are acceptable for the response.

**Referrer:** Allows the user agent to specify the address (URI) of the
resource from which the URI for the NAF Key Centre was obtained.

6\. **Process response at Remote Device**

The Remote Device receives the response and accepts the server-payload
for further processing. The Remote Device stores the Ks\_local\_device
key, the Key Lifetime and B-TID locally.

######## Annex D (normative): XML schema for Key Request and Key Response 

D.1 Introduction
================

This annex contains the XML schema which defines a format for the key
request sent from the Remote Device to the NAF Key Centre requesting a
Ks\_local\_device key and for the key response sent from the NAF Key
Centre to the Remote Device containing the Ks\_local\_device key,
according to the procedures in section 4.5.2.

D.2 Key Request Format
======================

D.2.1 Data Format
-----------------

The below XML schema defines a format used to request a
Ks\_local\_device key from the NAF Key Centre.

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<xs:schema

xmlns:xs=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema\"

xmlns=\"urn:3GPP:metadata:2005:Keyest:DeviceKeyRequest\"

targetNamespace=\"urn:3GPP:metadata:2005:Keyest:DeviceKeyRequest\"

elementFormDefault=\"qualified\"

attributeFormDefault=\"unqualified\"\>

\<xs:element name=\"keyestDeviceKeyRequest\"\>

\<xs:annotation\>

\<xs:documentation\>

Keyest Key Request as defined by 3GPP TS 33.259

\</xs:documentation\>

\</xs:annotation\>

\<xs:complexType\>

\<xs:sequence\>

\<xs:element name=\"BTID\" type=\"xs:string\" minOccurs=\"1\"
maxOccurs=\"1\"/\>

\<xs:element name=\"DEVICEID\" type=\"xs:string\" minOccurs=\"1\"
maxOccurs=\"1\"/\>

\</xs:sequence\>

\<xs:anyAttribute processContents=\"skip\"/\>

\</xs:complexType\>

\</xs:element\>

\</xs:schema\>

D.2.2 Example
-------------

The below example is used to request a new Ks\_local\_device key derived
from a GBA key with identity BTID \"jhg876jhg\"and a DEVICE ID
\"64783934857\".

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<keyestDeviceKeyRequest

xmlns:xsi=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance\"

xmlns=\"urn:3GPP:metadata:2005:Keyest:DeviceKeyRequest\"\>

\<BTID\>jhg876jhg\</BTID\>

\<DEVICEID\>64783934857\</DEVICEID\>

\</keyestDeviceKeyRequest\>

D.3 Key Response Format
=======================

D.3.1 Data Format
-----------------

The below XML schema defines a format used in the response to a Key
request from the Remote Device according to the procedure in section
4.5.2.

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<xs:schema

xmlns:xs=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema\"

xmlns=\"urn:3GPP:metadata:2005:Keyest:DeviceKeyResponse\"

targetNamespace=\"urn:3GPP:metadata:2005:Keyest:DeviceKeyResponse\"

elementFormDefault=\"qualified\"

attributeFormDefault=\"unqualified\"\>

\<xs:element name=\"keyestDeviceKeyResponse\"\>

\<xs:annotation\>

\<xs:documentation\>

Keyest Key Response as defined by 3GPP TS 33.259

\</xs:documentation\>

\</xs:annotation\>

\<xs:complexType\>

\<xs:sequence\>

\<xs:element name=\"BTID\" type=\"xs:string\" minOccurs=\"1\"
maxOccurs=\"1\"/\>

\<xs:element name=\"KSLOCALDEVICE\" type=\"xs:string\" minOccurs=\"1\"
maxOccurs=\"1\"/\>

\<xs:element name=\"KEYLIFETIME\" type=\"xs:string\" minOccurs=\"1\"
maxOccurs=\"1\"/\>

\</xs:sequence\>

\<xs:anyAttribute processContents=\"skip\"/\>

\</xs:complexType\>

\</xs:element\>

\</xs:schema\>

D.3.2 Example
-------------

The below example is used in the key response from the NAF Key Centre
with identity BTID \"jhg876jhg\", KSLOCALDEVICE \"64783934857\" and a
KEYLIFETIME \"5675\".

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<keyestDeviceKeyResponse

xmlns:xsi=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance\"

xmlns=\"urn:3GPP:metadata:2005:Keyest:DeviceKeyResponse\"\>

\<BTID\>jhg876jhg\</BTID\>

\<KSLOCALDEVICE\>64783934857\</KSLOCALDEVICE\>

\<KEYLIFETIME\>5675\</KEYLIFETIME\>

\</keyestDeviceKeyResponse\>

######## Annex E (normative): TLS profiles

The Remote Device and NAF Key Centre shall use the TLS profile defined
in TS 33.310 \[19\] for TLS with certificate based mutual authentication
and PSK-TLS.

######## Annex F (informative): Application specific key (Ks\_local\_device\_appl)

This Annex gives an example on how the applications in the UICC Hosting
Device and Remote Device could derive further key material
(Ks\_local\_device\_appl) from the Ks\_local\_device key.

F.1 Example of Ks\_local\_device\_appl key derivation in key establishment
==========================================================================

The applications in the UICC Hosting Device and Remote Device could use
the Ks\_local\_device key to derive further key material, which is
application specific, to ensure that different applications in the UICC
Hosting Device and Remote Device use different keys.

Application specific key material could be computed in the UICC Hosting
Device and the Remote Device as:\
Ks\_local\_device\_appl = KDF (Ks\_local\_device, B-TID, Appli\_ID),
where KDF is the key derivation function as specified in Annex G, and
the key derivation parameters consist of the Appli\_ID and the B-TID.

NOTE: The definition of the Appli\_ID is out of the scope of this
specification. The Appli\_ID could be defined in an application
specification utilising the key establishment procedure. The Appli\_ID
could also be exchanged on the Local Interface between the applications
to initiate the key derivation of the application specific key material.

######## Annex G (informative): Application specific key (Ks\_local\_device\_appl): Key Derivation Function definition

G.1 Ks\_local\_device\_appl key derivation in key establishment
===============================================================

The description of this key derivation function KDF and input parameter
encoding can be found in TS 33.220 \[3\]. The key derivation function
KDF in this annex is implemented as defined in TS 33.220 \[3\].

G.2 Input parameters for Ks\_local\_device\_appl key derivation
===============================================================

When the application specific key (i.e. Ks\_local\_device\_appl) is
computed, the input parameters for the key derivation function could be
the following:

\- FC = 0x01,

\- P0 = Appl\_ID,

\- L0 = length of Appl\_ID is variable (not greater than 65535),

\- P1 = B-TID,

\- L1 = length of B-TID is variable (not greater than 65535),

The input parameter Key to the key derivation function defined in
TS 33.220 \[3\] shall be the Ks\_local\_device key.

######## Annex H (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                              
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                               **Old**   **New**
  2007-06              \-           \-             \-       \-        Approved at SP-36 and updated to version 7.0.0                    2.0.0     7.0.0
  2007-09              SP-37        SP-070598      001      1         Stage 3 details - Ua interface and adding TLS Profiling           7.0.0     7.1.0
  2007-09              SP-37        SP-070598      002      1         Introduction of key confirmation and some various other changes   7.0.0     7.1.0
  2007-09              SP-37        SP-070598      003      1         Clarifications regarding the use of Ks\_local\_device key         7.0.0     7.1.0
  2007-12              SP-38        SP-070889      005      1         Correction of XML schema                                          7.1.0     7.2.0
  2007-12              SP-38        SP-070889      004      1         Visited NAF Key Centre Requirements                               7.1.0     8.0.0
  2008-03              SP-39        SP-080146      006      \-        Correction of typos in references                                 8.0.0     8.1.0
  2008-12              SP-42        SP-080745      007      \-        Input parameter encoding shall rely on TS 33.220 KDF              8.1.0     8.2.0
  2008-12              SP-42        SP-080745      008      \-        Removing editor\'s note on IANA registration                      8.1.0     8.2.0
  2009-12              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)                                     8.2.0     9.0.0
  2011-03              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                    9.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              SP-57        SP-120605      009      \-        Correction for TLS references to point to TS 33.310               10.0.0    11.0.0
  2014-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                    11.0.0    **12.0.0**
  2016-01              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                    12.0.0    **13.0.0**
  2017-03              \-           \-             \-       \-        Promotion to Release 14 without technical change                  13.0.0    **14.0.0**
  2018-06              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                    14.0.0    **15.0.0**
  2020-07              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                    15.0.0    **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
