![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-of-terms-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[6](#terms)

[6](#symbols)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#udm-specific-security-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction)

[7](#security-functional-requirements-on-the-udm-derived-from-3gpp-specifications-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#general)

[7](#user-privacy-procedure)

[7](#de-concealment-of-supi-from-the-suci-based-on-the-protection-scheme-used-to-generate-the-suci.)

[8](#authentication-and-key-agreement-procedure)

[8](#synchronization-failure-handling)

[9](#storing-of-authentication-status-of-ue-by-udm.)

[10](#technical-baseline)

[10](#introduction-1)

[10](#protecting-data-and-information)

[10](#protecting-data-and-information-general)

[10](#protecting-data-and-information-unauthorized-viewing)

[10](#protecting-data-and-information-in-storage)

[10](#protecting-data-and-information-in-transfer)

[10](#logging-access-to-personal-data)

[10](#protecting-availability-and-integrity)

[10](#authentication-and-authorization)

[10](#protecting-sessions)

[11](#logging)

[11](#operating-systems)

[11](#web-servers)

[11](#network-devices)

[11](#udm-specific-adaptations-of-hardening-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[11](#introduction-2)

[11](#technical-baseline-1)

[11](#operating-systems-1)

[11](#web-servers-1)

[11](#network-devices-1)

[11](#network-functions-in-service-based-architecture)

[11](#udm-specific-adaptations-of-basic-vulnerability-testing-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[12](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Terms 3.2 Symbols
3.3 Abbreviations 4 UDM-specific security requirements and related test
cases 4.1 Introduction 4.2 Security functional requirements on the UDM
derived from 3GPP specifications and related test cases 4.2.0 General
4.2.1 User Privacy Procedure 4.2.1.1 De-concealment of SUPI from the
SUCI based on the protection scheme used to generate the SUCI. 4.2.2
Authentication and key agreement procedure 4.2.2.1 Synchronization
failure handling 4.2.2.2 Storing of authentication status of UE by UDM.
4.2.3 Technical Baseline 4.2.3.1 Introduction 4.2.3.2 Protecting data
and information 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage 4.2.3.2.4
Protecting data and information in transfer 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to
personal data 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity 4.2.3.4
Authentication and authorization 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions 4.2.3.6
Logging 4.2.4 Operating Systems 4.2.5 Web Servers 4.2.6 Network Devices
4.3 UDM-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases 4.3.1 Introduction 4.3.2 Technical baseline 4.3.3 Operating
systems 4.3.4 Web servers 4.3.5 Network devices 4.3.6 Network functions
in service-based architecture 4.4 UDM-specific adaptations of basic
vulnerability testing requirements and related test cases Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

1 Scope
=======

The present document contains requirements and test cases that are
specific to the UDM network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of
General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific
adaptions of the requirements and test cases. It also specifies the
requirements and test cases unique to the UDM network product class.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 33.501 (Release 15): \"Security architecture and
procedures for 5G system\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance
requirements\".

\[4\] 3GPP TR 33.926 \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats
and critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".

3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
=================================================

3.1 Terms
---------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any,
in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**Subscription Identifier:** Defined in TS 23.501 \[5\] and in TS 23.003
\[6\].

**Subscription Concealed Identifier:** Defined in TS 33.501 \[2\].

**Subscription Identifier De-concealing Function:** Defined in TS 33.501
\[2\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

Void.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

5GS 5G System

AMF Access and Mobility Management Function

AKA Authentication and Key Agreement

ARPF Authentication credential Repository and Processing Function

AUSF Authentication Server Function

EAP Extensible Authentication Protocol

SIDF Subscription Identifier De-concealing Function

SUCI Subscription Concealed Identifier

SUPI Subscription Permanent Identifier

UDM Unified Data Management

UDR Unified Data Repository

4 UDM-specific security requirements and related test cases
===========================================================

4.1 Introduction
----------------

UDM specific security requirements include both requirements derived
from UDM specific security functional requirements in relevant
specifications as well as security requirements introduced in the
present document derived from the threats specific to UDM as described
in TR 33.926 \[4\].

4.2 Security functional requirements on the UDM derived from 3GPP specifications and related test cases
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.2.0 General

The general approach in TS 33.117 \[3\] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the
requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 \[3\] clause 4.2.2.2 related to
SBA/SBI aspect apply to the UDM network product class.

### 4.2.1 User Privacy Procedure

#### 4.2.1.1 De-concealment of SUPI from the SUCI based on the protection scheme used to generate the SUCI.

*Requirement Name:* De-concealment of SUPI from the SUCI based on the
protection scheme used to generate the SUCI.

*Requirement Reference:* TS 33.501 \[2\], clause 5.8.2.

*Requirement Description:* \"The SIDF shall resolve the SUPI from the
SUCI based on the protection scheme used to generate the SUCI.\" as
specified in TS 33.501 \[2\], clause 5.8.2.

*Threat References*: TR 33.926 \[4\], clause E.2.2.1, Incorrect SUCI
de-concealment.

**TEST CASE:**

**Test Name:** TC\_DE-CONCEAL\_SUPI\_from\_SUCI\_UDM

**Purpose:**

Verify that the SIDF De-conceals the SUPI from the SUCI based on the
protection scheme used to generate the SUCI.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Condition:**

\- UDM network product is connected in simulated/real network
environment including an AUSF and AMF.

\- Tester shall have access to the subscription data stored in UDR.

\- Tester shall record the SUPI from the UE.

**Execution Steps:**

**Test case:**

Tester shall capture the entire authentication procedure between UE and
AMF over N1, N12 and N13 interface using any network analyser.

1\. Tester shall filter the Nudm\_Authentication\_Get Response message
sent from UDM to AUSF over N13 interface containing the SUPI.

2\. Tester shall compare the SUPI gotten from UE and the SUPI retrieved
from Nudm\_Authentication\_Get Response message.

NOTE: The tester may filter the Nausf\_UEAutentication\_Authenticate
Response message sent from the UDM/AUSF to the AMF over N12 interface
containing the SUPI, if the UDM and AUSF network products are collocated
without an open N13 interface.

**Expected Results:**

SIDF resolves the SUPI from the SUCI based on the protection scheme used
to generate the SUCI.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., evidence can be presented in
the form of screenshot/screen-capture.

### 4.2.2 Authentication and key agreement procedure

#### 4.2.2.1 Synchronization failure handling

*Requirement Name*: Synchronization failure handling

*Requirement Reference:* TS 33.501 \[2\], clause 6.1.3.3.2.

*Requirement Description*: \"When the UDM/ARPF receives an
Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_Get Request message with a \"synchronisation
failure indication\" it acts as described in TS 33.102 \[9\], clause
6.3.5 where ARPF is mapped to HE/AuC. The UDM/ARPF sends an
Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_Get Response message with a new authentication
vector for either EAP-AKA\' or 5G-AKA depending on the authentication
method applicable for the user to the AUSF.as specified in TS 33.501
\[2\], clause 6.1.3.3.2.

*Threat References*: TR 33.926 \[4\], clause E.2.2.2, Synchronization
failure.

*Test Case*:

**Purpose:**

Verify that synchronization failure is recovered correctly in the home
network.

**Pre-Conditions:**

Test environment with an AUSF. The AUSF or AMF may be simulated.

**Execution Steps**

1\. The AUSF sends an Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_Get Request message to the
UDM with a \"synchronisation failure indication\" and parameters RAND
and AUTS.

2\. The UDM/ARPF performs steps 1-5 as described in TS 33.102, clause
6.3.5.

**Expected Results:**

The UDM sends an Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_Get Response message with a new
authentication vector to the AUSF.

NOTE: The expected results would be that the UDM/AUSF sends an
Nausf\_UEAuthentication\_Authenticate Response message with EAP
Request/AKA'-Challenge for EAP AKA', or 5G SE AV for 5G AKA to the AMF,
if the UDM and AUSF network products are collocated without an open N13
interface.

#### 4.2.2.2 Storing of authentication status of UE by UDM. 

*Requirement Name:* Storing of authentication status of UE by UDM.

*Requirement Reference:* TS 33.501 \[2\], clause 6.1.4.1a

*Requirement Description:* \"The UDM shall store the authentication
status of the UE (SUPI, authentication result, timestamp, and the
serving network name) after authentication\" as specified in TS 33.501
\[2\], clause 6.1.4.1a.

*Threat References*: TR 33.926 \[4\], clause E.2.2.3, Failure to store
of authentication status.

**TEST CASE:**

**Test Name:** TC\_AUTH\_STATUS\_STORE\_UDM

**Purpose:**

Verify that the UDM under test stores the authentication status of UE,
which is identical to the UE authentication information sent to/from the
AUSF and the AMF.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Condition:**

\- UDM network product is connected with an AUSF in simulated/real
network environment involving AMF, eNB.

\- The tester shall have access to all the authentication specific data
sent over N1 interface, N12 interface and N13 interface.

\- The tester shall have access to the UDM under test.

**Execution Steps:**

1\. The tester shall capture the entire authentication procedure and
authentication confirmation procedure over N12 and N13 interface using
any network analyser.

2\. the tester shall filter the Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_Get Request
message sent over the N13 interface to retrieve serving network name.

3\. The ester shall filter the Nudm\_Authentication\_Get Response
message sent over N13 interface to find the SUPI.

4\. The tester shall filter the Nausf\_UEAuthentication\_Authenticate
Response message sent over N12 interface to retrieve the Authentication
result (EAP success/failure for EAP-AKA\' or Result for 5G AKA).

5\. The tester shall filter the
Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_ResultConfirmation Request message to retrieve
the authentication result and time of authentication procedure sent from
the AUSF to the UDM over N13 interface.

6\. The tester shall compare the serving network name stored in the UDM
against the serving network name retrieved from the
Nudm\_Authentication\_Get Request message and the serving network name
retrieved from the Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_ResultConfirmation Request
message.

7\. The tester shall compare the authentication status stored in the UDM
against the authentication result retrieved from N12 interface.

8\. The tester shall compare the SUPI stored in the UDM against the SUPI
retrieved from the Nudm\_Authentication\_Get Response message and the
SUPI retrieved from the Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_ResultConfirmation
Request message.

9\. The tester shall compare the timestamp stored in the UDM against the
time of authentication procedure retrieved from the
Nudm\_UEAuthentication\_ResultConfirmation Request message.

**Expected Results:**

The storing of authentication status (SUPI, authentication result,
timestamp, and the serving network name) of UE at the UDM is verified.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., evidence can be presented in
the form of screenshot/screen-capture.

NOTE: this test case does not apply to the deployment scenario where the
UDM and AUSF network products are collocated without an open N13
interface.

### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline

#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction

The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.

#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information

##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

#### 4.2.3.6 Logging

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

### 4.2.4 Operating Systems

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.2.5 Web Servers

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.2.6 Network Devices

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

4.3 UDM-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.3.1 Introduction

The present clause contains UDM-specific adaptations of hardening
requirements and related test cases.

### 4.3.2 Technical baseline

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.3.3 Operating systems

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.3.4 Web servers

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.3.5 Network devices

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 \[3\].

4.4 UDM-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related test cases
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                  
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                     **New version**
  2019-09              SA\#85                                                 Change control version                                                  16.0.0
  2019-10                                                                     EditHelp review                                                         16.0.1
  2019-12              SA\#86        SP-191138   0001     \-        F         Corrections for clean-up and alignment                                  16.1.0
  2020-07              SA\#88E       SP-200358   0002     \-        F         Update to the test case of Storing of UE authentication status by UDM   16.2.0
  2020-09              SA\#89E       SP-200703   0003     \-        F         Clarification on the test cases if the UDM and AUSF are collocated      16.3.0
  2020-12              SA\#90e       SP-201004   0004     \-        F         Reference of general SBA/SBI aspect in 33.514                           16.4.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
