![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-of-terms-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[6](#terms)

[6](#symbols)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#ausf-specific-security-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction)

[7](#ausf-specific-adaptations-of-security-functional-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction-1)

[7](#security-functional-requirements-on-the-ausf-deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#technical-baseline)

[7](#introduction-2)

[7](#protecting-data-and-information)

[7](#protecting-data-and-information-general)

[7](#protecting-data-and-information-unauthorized-viewing)

[8](#protecting-data-and-information-in-storage)

[8](#protecting-data-and-information-in-transfer)

[8](#logging-access-to-personal-data)

[8](#protecting-availability-and-integrity)

[8](#authentication-and-authorization)

[8](#protecting-sessions)

[8](#logging)

[8](#operating-systems)

[8](#web-servers)

[8](#network-devices)

[8](#ausf-specific-adaptations-of-hardening-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[8](#introduction-3)

[8](#technical-baseline-1)

[8](#operating-systems-1)

[9](#web-servers-1)

[9](#network-devices-1)

[9](#network-functions-in-service-based-architecture)

[9](#ausf-specific-adaptations-of-basic-vulnerability-testing-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[10](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Terms 3.2 Symbols
3.3 Abbreviations 4 AUSF-specific security requirements and related test
cases 4.1 Introduction 4.2 AUSF-specific adaptations of security
functional requirements and related test cases 4.2.1 Introduction 4.2.2
Security functional requirements on the AUSF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases 4.2.3 Technical Baseline 4.2.3.1
Introduction 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information 4.2.3.2.1
Protecting data and information -- general 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and
information -- unauthorized viewing 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and
information in storage 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in
transfer 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data 4.2.3.3 Protecting
availability and integrity 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions 4.2.3.6 Logging 4.2.4 Operating Systems
4.2.5 Web Servers 4.2.6 Network Devices 4.3 AUSF-specific adaptations of
hardening requirements and related test cases 4.3.1 Introduction 4.3.2
Technical baseline 4.3.3 Operating systems 4.3.4 Web servers 4.3.5
Network devices 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
4.4 AUSF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing
requirements and related test cases Annex A (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

1 Scope
=======

The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases
that are specific to the AUSF network product class. It refers to the
Catalogue of General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates
specific adaptions of the requirements and test cases given there, as
well as specifying requirements and test cases unique to the AUSF
network product class.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 33.501 (Release 15): \"Security architecture and
procedures for 5G system\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance
requirements\".

\[4\] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats
and critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".

3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
=================================================

3.1 Terms
---------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any,
in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

Void.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

4 AUSF-specific security requirements and related test cases
============================================================

4.1 Introduction
----------------

AUSF specific security requirements include both requirements derived
from AUSF specific security functional requirements in relevant
specifications as well as security requirements introduced in the
present document derived from the threats specific to AUSF as described
in TR 33.926 \[4\].

4.2 AUSF-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and related test cases
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Introduction

The present clause describes the security functional requirements and
the corresponding test cases for AUSF network product class. The
proposed security requirements are classified in two groups:

\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 \[2\] and
detailed in clause 4.2.2.

\- General security functional requirements which include requirements
not already addressed in TS 33.501 \[2\] but whose support is also
important to ensure that AUSF conforms to a common security baseline
detailed in clause 4.2.3.

### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the AUSF deriving from 3GPP specifications and related test cases

The general approach in TS 33.117 \[3\] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the
requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 \[3\] clause 4.2.2.2 related to
SBA/SBI aspect apply to the AUSF network product class.

There are no AUSF-specific test cases according to the security
functional requirements on the AUSF deriving from TS 33.501 \[2\] and
security requirements derived from the threats specific to AUSF as
described in TR 33.926 \[4\].

### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline

#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction

The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.

#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information

##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

#### 4.2.3.6 Logging

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

### 4.2.4 Operating Systems

There are no AUSF -specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

### 4.2.5 Web Servers

There are no AUSF -specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117
\[3\].

### 4.2.6 Network Devices

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

4.3 AUSF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.3.1 Introduction

The present clause contains AUSF-specific adaptations of hardening
requirements and related test cases.

### 4.3.2 Technical baseline

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.3.3 Operating systems

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.3.4 Web servers

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.3.5 Network devices

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 \[3\].

4.4 AUSF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related test cases
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are no AUSF-specific additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 \[3\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                          
  **date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                             **New version**
  2019-09              SA\#85                                                 Change control version                          16.0.0
  2019-10                                                                     EditHelp review                                 16.0.1
  2019-12              SA\#86        SP-191138   0001     \-        F         Correction for alignment                        16.1.0
  2020-12              SA\#90e       SP-201004   0002     \-        F         Reference of general SBA/SBI aspect in 33.516   16.2.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------- -----------------
