![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-of-terms-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[6](#terms)

[6](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#nrf-specific-security-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction)

[7](#nrf-specific-adaptations-of-security-functional-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction-1)

[7](#security-functional-requirements-on-the-nrf-deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#security-functional-requirements-on-the-nrf-deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-general-approach)

[7](#nf-discovery-procedure)

[7](#nf-discovery-authorization-for-specific-slice)

[8](#technical-baseline)

[8](#introduction-2)

[8](#protecting-data-and-information)

[8](#protecting-data-and-information-general)

[8](#protecting-data-and-information-unauthorized-viewing)

[9](#protecting-data-and-information-in-storage)

[9](#protecting-data-and-information-in-transfer)

[9](#logging-access-to-personal-data)

[9](#protecting-availability-and-integrity)

[9](#authentication-and-authorization)

[9](#protecting-sessions)

[9](#logging)

[9](#operating-systems)

[9](#web-servers)

[9](#network-devices)

[9](#nrf-specific-adaptations-of-hardening-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[9](#introduction-3)

[9](#technical-baseline-1)

[10](#operating-systems-1)

[10](#web-servers-1)

[10](#network-devices-1)

[10](#network-functions-in-service-based-architecture)

[10](#nrf-specific-adaptations-of-basic-vulnerability-testing-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[11](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Terms 3.2 Symbols
3.3 Abbreviations 4 NRF-specific security requirements and related test
cases 4.1 Introduction 4.2 NRF-specific adaptations of security
functional requirements and related test cases 4.2.1 Introduction 4.2.2
Security functional requirements on the NRF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases 4.2.2.1 Security functional
requirements on the NRF deriving from 3GPP specifications -- general
approach 4.2.2.2 NF discovery procedure 4.2.2.2.1 NF discovery
authorization for specific slice 4.2.3 Technical Baseline 4.2.3.1
Introduction 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information 4.2.3.2.1
Protecting data and information -- general 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and
information -- unauthorized viewing 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and
information in storage 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in
transfer 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data 4.2.3.3 Protecting
availability and integrity 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions 4.2.3.6 Logging 4.2.4 Operating Systems
4.2.5 Web Servers 4.2.6 Network Devices 4.3 NRF-specific adaptations of
hardening requirements and related test cases 4.3.1 Introduction 4.3.2
Technical baseline 4.3.3 Operating systems 4.3.4 Web servers 4.3.5
Network devices 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
4.4 NRF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document. In the present document, modal verbs have
the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

1 Scope
=======

The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases
that are specific to the NRF network product class. It refers to the
Catalogue of General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates
specific adaptions of the requirements and test cases given there, as
well as specifying requirements and test cases unique to the NRF network
product class.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

> \[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> \[2\] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance
> requirements\".
>
> \[3\] 3GPP TS 33.501 v15: \"Security architecture and procedures for
> 5G system\".
>
> \[4\] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System\".
>
> \[5\] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network function repository
> services; Stage 3\".
>
> \[6\] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS)
> threats and critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".

3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
=================================================

3.1 Terms
---------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any,
in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

Void.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

NF Network Function

NRF Network Repository Function

4 NRF-specific security requirements and related test cases
===========================================================

4.1 Introduction
----------------

NRF specific security requirements include both requirements derived
from NRF-specific security functional requirements in relevant
specifications as well as the security requirements introduced in the
present document derived from the threats specific to NRF as described
in TR 33.926 \[6\].

4.2 NRF-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and related test cases
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Introduction

The present clause describes the security functional requirements and
the corresponding test cases for NRF network product class. The proposed
security requirements are classified in two groups:

\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 \[3\] and
detailed in clause 4.2.2.

\- General security functional requirements which include requirements
not already addressed in TS 33.501 \[3\] but whose support is also
important to ensure that NRF conforms to a common security baseline
detailed in clause 4.2.3.

### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the NRF deriving from 3GPP specifications and related test cases

#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the NRF deriving from 3GPP specifications -- general approach

In addition to the requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 \[2\],
clause 4.2.2, a NRF shall satisfy the following:

It is assumed for the purpose of the present SCAS that a NRF conforms to
all mandatory security-related provisions pertaining to a NRF in:

\- 3GPP TS 33.501 \[3\]: \"Security architecture procedures for 5G
system\";

\- other 3GPP specifications that make reference to TS 33.501 \[3\] or
are referred to from TS 33.501 \[3\].

Security procedures pertaining to a NRF are typically embedded in NF
discovery/registration/access token request procedures and are hence
assumed to be tested together with them.

#### 4.2.2.2 NF discovery procedure

##### 4.2.2.2.1 NF discovery authorization for specific slice

*Requirement Name*: NF discovery authorization for specific slice

*Requirement Reference:* TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 5.9.2.1, TS 23.502
\[4\], clause 4.17.4, and TS 29.510 \[5\], clause 6.2.3.2.3.1.

*Requirement Description*:

\"NRF shall be able to ensure that NF Discovery and registration
requests are authorized\" as specified in TS 33.501 \[3\], clause
5.9.2.1.

\"The NRF authorizes the Nnrf\_NFDiscovery\_Request. Based on the
profile of the expected NF/NF service and the type of the NF service
consumer, the NRF determines whether the NF service consumer is allowed
to discover the expected NF instance(s). If the expected NF instance(s)
or NF service instance(s) are deployed in a certain network slice, NRF
authorizes the discovery request according to the discovery
configuration of the Network Slice, e.g. the expected NF instance(s) are
only discoverable by the NF in the same network slice\".

as specified in TS 23.502 \[4\], clause 4.17.4.

\"If included, the requester-snssais IE shall contain the list of
S-NSSAI of the requester NF. The NRF shall use this to return only those
NF profiles of NF Instances allowing to be discovered from the slice(s)
identified by this IE, according to the \"allowedNssais\" list in the NF
Profile and NF Service\" as specified in TS 29.510 \[5\], clause
6.2.3.2.3.1.

*Threat References*: TR 33.926 \[6\], clause H.2.2.1, No slice specific
authorization for NF discovery

*Test Case*:

**Test Name:** TC\_DISC\_AUTHORIZATION\_SLICE\_NRF

**Purpose:**

Verify that the NRF under test does not authorize slice specific
discovery request for the NF instance which is not part of the requested
slice, according to the slice specific discovery configuration of the
requested NF instance.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

> **Pre-Conditions:**

\- Test environment with the NF1 and NF2, which may be simulated.

\- The NF2 is configured with a list of S-NSSAI, which contains slice A
but not slice B.

\- The NF1 is configured as a NF instance belonging to slice B and is
connected in emulated/real network environment.

\- The NF1 and NF2 is successfully authenticated with the NRF under
test.

> **Execution Steps**

1\. The NF2 registers at the NRF under test with a list of S-NSSAI.

2\. The NF1 sends an Nnrf\_NFDiscovery\_Request to the NRF under test
with the expected service name of NF2, NF type of the expected NF2.

> 3\. The NRF under test determines that NF2 instance only allows
> discovery from NFs belonging to slice A, according to the
> \"allowedNssais\" list stored in NF2 Profile.

**Expected Results:**

The NRF under test returns a response with \"403 Forbidden\" status
code, as specified in clause 5.3.2.2.2 of TS 29.510 \[5\].

**Expected format of evidence:**

Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., evidence can be presented in
the form of screenshot/screen-capture.

### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline

#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction

The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.

#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information

##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

#### 4.2.3.6 Logging

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

### 4.2.4 Operating Systems

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.2.5 Web Servers

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.2.6 Network Devices

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

4.3 NRF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.3.1 Introduction

The requirements proposed hereafter (with the relative test cases) aim
to securing NRF by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In particular,
the identified requirements aim to ensure that all the default
configurations of NRF (including operating system software, firmware and
applications) are appropriately set.

### 4.3.2 Technical baseline

All text from TS 33.117, clause 4.3.2 also applies to NRFs. There are no
NRF-specific adaptations or additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

### 4.3.3 Operating systems

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.3.4 Web servers

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.3.5 Network devices

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture

There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 \[2\].

4.4 NRF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related test cases
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

All text from TS 33.117, clause 4.4 also applies to NRFs. There are no
NRF-specific adaptations or additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                     
  **date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                        **New version**
  2019-09              SA\#85                                                 Change control version                                                     16.0.0
  2019-10                                                                     EditHelp review                                                            16.0.1
  2019-12              SA\#86        SP-191138   0001     \-        F         Adding abbreviations and corrections for alignment                         16.1.0
  2020-07              SA\#88E       SP-200358   0002     1         F         Update to the test case of NF discovery authorization for specific slice   16.2.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
