![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-of-terms-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[6](#terms)

[6](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#sepp-specific-security-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction)

[7](#sepp-specific-adaptations-of-security-functional-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction-1)

[7](#security-functional-requirements-on-the-sepp-deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#security-functional-requirements-on-the-sepp-deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-general-approach)

[7](#correct-handling-of-cryptographic-material-of-peer-sepps-and-ipx-providers)

[9](#connection-specific-scope-of-cryptographic-material-by-ipx-providers)

[10](#correct-handling-of-serving-plmn-id-mismatch)

[11](#confidential-ies-replacement-handling-in-original-n32-f-message)

[11](#correct-handling-of-protection-policy-mismatch)

[13](#jws-profile-restriction)

[14](#no-misplacement-of-encrypted-ies-in-json-object-by-ipx)

[15](#technical-baseline)

[15](#introduction-2)

[15](#protecting-data-and-information)

[15](#protecting-data-and-information-general)

[15](#protecting-data-and-information-unauthorized-viewing)

[15](#protecting-data-and-information-in-storage)

[15](#protecting-data-and-information-in-transfer)

[15](#logging-access-to-personal-data)

[15](#protecting-availability-and-integrity)

[15](#authentication-and-authorization)

[15](#protecting-sessions)

[16](#logging)

[16](#operating-systems)

[16](#web-servers)

[16](#network-devices)

[16](#sepp-specific-adaptations-of-hardening-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[16](#introduction-3)

[16](#technical-baseline-1)

[16](#operating-systems-1)

[16](#web-servers-1)

[16](#network-devices-1)

[16](#network-functions-in-service-based-architecture)

[16](#sepp-specific-adaptations-of-basic-vulnerability-testing-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[17](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Terms 3.2 Symbols
3.3 Abbreviations 4 SEPP-specific security requirements and related test
cases 4.1 Introduction 4.2 SEPP-specific adaptations of security
functional requirements and related test cases 4.2.1 Introduction 4.2.2
Security functional requirements on the SEPP deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases 4.2.2.1 Security functional
requirements on the SEPP deriving from 3GPP specifications -- general
approach 4.2.2.2 Correct handling of cryptographic material of peer
SEPPs and IPX providers 4.2.2.3 Connection-specific scope of
cryptographic material by IPX-providers 4.2.2.4 Correct handling of
serving PLMN ID mismatch 4.2.2.5 Confidential IEs replacement handling
in original N32-f message 4.2.2.6 Correct handling of protection policy
mismatch 4.2.2.7 JWS profile restriction 4.2.2.8 No misplacement of
encrypted IEs in JSON object by IPX 4.2.3 Technical Baseline 4.2.3.1
Introduction 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information 4.2.3.2.1
Protecting data and information -- general 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and
information -- unauthorized viewing 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and
information in storage 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in
transfer 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data 4.2.3.3 Protecting
availability and integrity 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions 4.2.3.6 Logging 4.2.4 Operating Systems
4.2.5 Web Servers 4.2.6 Network Devices 4.3 SEPP-specific adaptations of
hardening requirements and related test cases 4.3.1 Introduction 4.3.2
Technical baseline 4.3.3 Operating systems 4.3.4 Web servers 4.3.5
Network devices 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
4.4 SEPP-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing
requirements and related test cases Annex A (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

1 Scope
=======

The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases
that are specific to the SEPP network product class. It refers to the
Catalogue of General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates
specific adaptions of the requirements and test cases given there, as
well as specifying requirements and test cases unique to the SEPP
network product class.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

> \[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> \[2\] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of General Security Assurance
> Requirements\".
>
> \[3\] 3GPP TS 33.501 (Release 15): \"Security architecture and
> procedures for 5G system\".
>
> \[4\] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS)
> threats and critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
>
> \[5\] Void.
>
> \[6\] 3GPP TS 29.573: \"5G System; Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)
> Interconnection\".

3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
=================================================

3.1 Terms
---------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any,
in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

Void.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

IPX IP eXchange service

JSON JavaScript Object Notation

JWS JSON Web Signature

NF Network Function

SEPP Security Edge Protection Proxy

4 SEPP-specific security requirements and related test cases
============================================================

4.1 Introduction
----------------

SEPP specific security requirements include both requirements derived
from SEPP-specific security functional requirements in relevant
specifications as well as security requirements introduced in the
present document derived from the threats specific to SEPP as described
in TR 33.926 \[4\].

4.2 SEPP-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and related test cases
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Introduction

The present clause describes the security functional requirements and
the corresponding test cases for SEPP network product class. The
proposed security requirements are classified in two groups:

\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 \[3\] and
detailed in clause 4.2.2.

\- General security functional requirements which include requirements
not already addressed in TS 33.501 \[3\] but whose support is also
important to ensure that SEPP conforms to a common security baseline
detailed in clause 4.2.3.

### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the SEPP deriving from 3GPP specifications and related test cases

#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the SEPP deriving from 3GPP specifications -- general approach

In addition to the requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 \[2\],
clause 4.2.2.1, an SEPP shall satisfy the following:

\- It is assumed for the purpose of the present SCAS that an SEPP
conforms to all mandatory security-related provisions pertaining to an
SEPP in:

\- 3GPP TS 33.501 \[3\]: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G
system\";

\- other 3GPP specifications that make reference to TS 33.50 \[3\]1 or
are referred to from TS 33.501 \[3\] Security procedures pertaining to
an SEPP are typically embedded in NF/NF service status
discovery/subscribe/notify procedures across PLMNs and are hence assumed
to be tested together with them.

#### 4.2.2.2 Correct handling of cryptographic material of peer SEPPs and IPX providers

*Requirement Name:* Correct handling of cryptographic material of peer
SEPPs and IPX providers

*Requirement Reference:* TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 5.9.3.2

*Requirement Description:*

\"The SEPP shall be able to clearly differentiate between certificates
used for authentication of peer SEPPs and certificates used for
authentication of intermediates performing message modifications.\"

*Threat References:* TR 33.926 \[4\], clause G.2.2.1, Misusing
cryptographic material of peer SEPPs and IPX providers

*Test Case:*

**Test Name:** TC\_CRYPT\_MATERIAL\_SEPP\_IPX\_SEPARATION

**Purpose:**

Verify that the SEPP under test does not accept raw public
keys/certificates by intermediate IPX-providers for N32-c TLS connection
establishment. The opposite is to be ensured as well: The SEPP under
test shall not accept N32-f JSON patches signed with raw public
keys/certificates of peer SEPPs.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Conditions:**

\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details how raw
public keys/certificates of peer SEPPs are to be configured and how
internal log files can be accessed.

\- A second SEPP instance for N32 communication with the SEPP under
test, which allows for the creation of custom N32-f messages. This
system may be simulated.

\- Both SEPPs are to be configured with a raw public key/certificate of
their communication peer to be able to establish a N32-c connection.

\- Test environment with one node simulating an IPX-provider. This
functionality includes parsing N32-f messages, creation of JSON-patches
for message modifications and JWS operations, among others.

\- Two public/private key pairs representing IPX-providers. These
cryptographic keys need to be different from those of the two SEPPs.

**Execution Steps**

1.1 Both SEPPs are configured for N32-f communication via the simulated
IPX-system.

1.2 Both SEPPs establish a N32 connection with each other. The secondary
SEPP provides the IPX-provider\'s public key/certificate to the SEPP
under test as part of the *IPX security information list* via N32-c.

1.3 While the N32 connection from the previous step is still active, the
tester attempts to establish an additional N32-c TLS connection using
the IPX-providers private key.

1.4 Based on the internal log files, the tester validates how the SEPP
under test handles the N32-c connection attempt.

2.1 Both SEPPs are configured for N32-f communication via the simulated
IPX-system.

2.2 Both SEPPs establish a N32-c connection with each other. The
secondary SEPP provides the IPX-provider\'s public key/certificate to
the SEPP under test as part of the *IPX security information list* via
N32-c.

2.3 The tester sends a N32-f message from the secondary SEPP via the
IPX-system towards the SEPP under test.

2.4 The intermediate IPX-system appends an arbitrary JSON-(NULL-)patch
to the N32-f message and signs it not with its own private key, but the
private key of the secondary SEPP. The modified message is then
forwarded to the SEPP under test.

2.5 Based on the internal log files, the tester validates how the
received N32-f message is handled by the SEPP under test.

Expected Results:

\- The N32-c TLS connection establishment using the cryptographic
material of the intermediate IPX-system fails with the SEPP to be tested
(step 1.4).

\- The JSON patch signed with the peer SEPP\'s private key is discarded
by the SEPP under test (step 2.5).

**Expected format of evidence:**

Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.

#### 4.2.2.3 Connection-specific scope of cryptographic material by IPX-providers

*Requirement Name:* Connection-specific scope of cryptographic material
by IPX-providers

*Requirement Reference:* TBA

*Requirement Description:*

Cryptographic material from IPX providers, i.e. raw public keys or
certificates, used to authenticate N32-f message modifications is only
valid for the N32 connection it is exchanged in. The SEPP under test
shall not accept N32-f message modifications signed by IPX-providers
other than the ones whose cryptographic material has been exchanged as
part of the *IPX security information list* via the related N32-c
connection.

*Threat References:* TR 33.926 \[4\], clause G.2.2.2, Misusing
cryptographic material beyond connection-specific scope

*Test Case:*

**Test Name:** TC\_CONNECTION\_SPECIFIC\_SCOPE\_CRYPT\_MATERIAL

**Purpose:**

Verify that the SEPP to be tested does not use cryptographic material
from IPX-providers other than the ones whose raw public key/certificate
has been exchanged in the related N32-c connection to authenticate N32-f
message modifications.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Conditions:**

\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details how raw
public keys/certificates of peer SEPPs are to be configured and how
internal log files can be accessed.

\- Test environment with one node simulating an IPX-provider. This
functionality includes parsing N32-f messages, creation of JSON-patches
for message modifications and JWS operations, among others.

\- Two public/private key pairs representing IPX-providers.

\- A second SEPP instance for N32 communication with the SEPP under
test, which allows for the creation of custom N32-f messages. This
system may be simulated.

\- Both SEPPs are to be configured with the raw public key/certificate
of their communication peer to be able to establish an N32-c TLS
connection.

**Execution Steps**

1\. Both SEPPs are configured for N32-f communication via the simulated
IPX-system.

2\. Both SEPPs establish a mutual N32-c connection. As part of the *IPX
security information list*, the secondary SEPP provides one of the
prepared raw public keys/certificates of the IPX-providers (KEY\_A) to
the SEPP under test.

3\. Parallel to the N32 connection in step 1, an additional connection
is established between the two SEPPs. Within this connection, an
alternate raw public key/certificate of the IPX-providers (KEY\_B) shall
be exchanged.

4\. Within the N32 connection established in step 1, the tester sends an
N32-f message from the secondary SEPP towards the SEPP under test. The
intermediate IPX-system appends an arbitrary JSON-(NULL-)patch, which is
signed with the private key belonging to KEY\_B, i.e. the one out of
scope of this particular N32 connection. The modified message is then
forwarded to the SEPP to be tested.

5\. Based on the log files of the SEPP under test, the tester validates
how the received N32-f message is handled.

**Expected Results:**

\- N32-f message modifications which have been signed by IPX-providers
whose information has not been exchanged as part of the related N32-c
connection are discarded by the SEPP under test.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.

#### 4.2.2.4 Correct handling of serving PLMN ID mismatch

*Requirement Name:* Correct handling of serving PLMN ID mismatch

*Requirement Reference:* TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 13.2.4.7, and TS 33.501
\[3\], clause 13.4.1.2

*Requirement Description*:

\"The receiving SEPP shall verify that the PLMN-ID contained in the
incoming N32-f message matches the PLMN-ID in the related N32-f
context\" as specified in TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 13.2.4.7.

\"The pSEPP shall check that the serving PLMN ID of subject claim in the
access token matches the remote PLMN ID corresponding to the N32-f
context Id in the N32 message\" as specified in TS 33.501 \[3\], clause
13.4.1.2.

*Threat References:* TR 33.926 \[4\], clause G.2.3.1, Incorrect handling
for PLMN ID mismatch

*Test case*:

**Test Name:** TC\_PLMN\_ID\_MISMATCH

**Purpose:**

Verify that the SEPP under test is able to identify the mismatch between
the PLMN-ID contained in the incoming N32-f message and the PLMN-ID in
the related N32-f context, and take action accordingly.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Conditions:**

\- Test environment with a peer SEPP instance (as cSEPP), which may be
simulated.

\- The SEPP under test and the peer SEPP have mutually authenticated and
already established N32-c connection.

\- The SEPP under test has established N32-f context with the peer SEPP.
The SEPP under test is in possession of the N32-f peer information which
contains remote PLMN ID of the peer SEPP.

\- The tester shall have access to the interfaces of the SEPP under test
and the peer SEPP.

**Execution Steps:**

1\. The tester computes an access token correctly, except that the PLMN
ID appended in the subject claim of the access token is different from
PLMN ID of the peer SEPP, and then includes the access token in a NF
Service Request.

2\. The peer SEPP sends to the SEPP under test a N32 message containing
the NF Service Request with the access token.

3\. The SEPP under test receives the incoming N32 message from the peer
SEPP and verifies that the PLMN ID in the subject claim of the access
token does not match the remote PLMN ID in the N32-f peer information in
the N32-f context.

**Expected Results:**

\- The SEPP under test sends an error signalling message containing the
N32-f Message Id and error code to the peer SEPP on the N32-c
connection.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.

#### 4.2.2.5 Confidential IEs replacement handling in original N32-f message

*Requirement Name: Confidential IEs replacement handling* in original
N32-f message

*Requirement Reference:* TS 29.573 \[6\], clause 5.3.2.3

*Requirement Description:*

\" 1. Based on the protection policy exchanged between the SEPPs, the
sending SEPP prepares an input for the JWE ciphering and integrity
protection as an array of free form JSON objects in the
\"DataToIntegrityProtectAndCipher\" block with each entry containing
either a HTTP header value or the value of a JSON payload IE of the API
message being reformatted. The index value \"encBlockIdx\" in the
payload part of DataToIntegrityProtectBlock shall point to the index of
a header value or IE value in this input array. .\"

*Threat References:* TR 33.926 \[4\], clause G.2.4.2, Exposure of
confidential IEs in N32-f message

*Test Case:*

**Purpose:**

Verify that the SEPP under test correctly replaces information elements
requiring encryption with the value \" encBlockIdx \".

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Conditions:**

\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details how raw
public keys/certificates of peer SEPPs are to be configured and how
internal log files can be accessed.

\- A second SEPP instance for N32 communication with the SEPP under
test, which allows for the creation of custom N32-f messages. This
system may be simulated.

\- Both SEPPs are to be configured with a raw public key/certificate of
their communication peer to be able to establish a N32-c connection.

\- An arbitrary Data-type encryption policy which includes at least one
information element requiring encryption on N32-f. The SEPP under test
is to be configured with this policy.

**Execution Steps**

1\. Both SEPPs establish a mutual N32-c connection.

2\. Via the PLMN-internal interface, the tester provides the SEPP under
test with a message to be forwarded to the peer SEPP on N32. This
message needs to contain at least one information element that requires
encryption according to the locally configured Data-type encryption
policy.

3\. The tester captures the related N32-f message after transformation
by the SEPP under test.

**Expected Results:**

Information elements in the original message that require encryption
according to the Data-type encryption policy are replaced with the value
\" encBlockIdx \".

**Expected format of evidence:**

Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. text representation of the
captured N32-f message.

#### 4.2.2.6 Correct handling of protection policy mismatch

*Requirement Name:* Correct handling of protection policy mismatch

*Requirement Reference*: TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 13.2.3.6

*Requirement Description*:

\"When a SEPP receives a data-type encryption or modification policy on
N32-c as specified in clause 13.2.2.2, it shall compare it to the one
that has been manually configured for this specific roaming partner and
IPX provider. If a mismatch occurs for one of the two policies, the SEPP
shall perform one of the following actions, according to operator
policy:

\- Send the error message as specified in TS 29.573 \[73\], clause
6.1.4.3.2, to the peer SEPP

\- Create a local warning\"

*Threat References:* TR 33.926 \[4\], clause G.2.3.2, Incorrect handling
for protection policy mismatch

*Test case*:

**Test Name:** TC\_SEPP\_POLICY\_MISMATCH

**Purpose:**

Verify that the SEPP under test is able to identify the mismatch between
the protection policies manually configured for a specific roaming
partner and IPX provider and the protection policies received on N32-c
connection, and take action accordingly.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Conditions:**

\- Test environment with a peer SEPP instance (as cSEPP), which may be
simulated.

\- The SEPP under test and the peer SEPP have mutually authenticated and
already established N32-c connection.

\- Exchanging of Data-type encryption policies and Modification policies
is required to be performed between the SEPP under test and the peer
SEPP.

\- The tester shall have access to the interfaces of the SEPP under test
and the peer SEPP.

\- The tester has configured on the SEPP under test the policies for
receiving messages, i.e. the Data-type encryption policy *d* of the peer
SEPP and the Modification policy *m* for the peer SEPP and an IPX
provider *I* used for the peer SEPP.

\- The tester has configured on the peer SEPP the policies for sending,
i.e. the peer SEPP\'s Data-type encryption policy *d\'* and the
Modification policy *m\'* for the IPX provider *I* used for the peer
SEPP.

\- There are three cases to test:

a\) the data encryption policies d and d\' are identical, the
modification policies m and m\' are different

b\) the data encryption policies d and d\' are different, the
modification policies m and m\' are identical

c\) both the data encryption policies d and d\' and the modification
policies m and m\' are different

NOTE: The test case below only applies in case the SEPP under test
supports manual configuration of the data encryption policy and/or
modification policy for the specific roaming partner and IPX provider.

\- The tester has configured on SEPP under test the action to be taken
for policy mismatch, which is sending error message.

**Execution Steps:**

For each of the three cases above, the following is executed:

1\. The peer SEPP sends a Security Parameter Exchange Request message to
the SEPP under test including the peer SEPP\'s Data-type encryption
policy *d\'*, and the Modification policy *m\'*.

2\. The SEPP under test stores the received Data-type encryption policy
*d\'* and the Modification policy *m\'*, then compare them with the
Data-type encryption policy *d* and the Modification policy *m*
configured on it.

**Expected Results:**

\- The SEPP under test sends an error signalling message to the peer
SEPP on the N32-c connection or logs the error.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.

#### 4.2.2.7 JWS profile restriction

*Requirement Name:* JWS profile restriction

*Requirement Reference*: TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 13.2.4.9

*Requirement Description*:

\"SEPPs and IPXs shall follow the JWS profile as defined in TS 33.210
\[3\] with the restriction that they shall only use ES256 algorithm\" .

*Threat References:* TR 33.926 \[4\], clause G.2.4.1, Use of weak JWS
algorithm

*Test case:*

**Test Name:** TC\_JWS\_PROFILE\_RESTRICTION

**Purpose:**

Verify that the SEPP under test is able to restrict the JWS profile to
only use ES256 algorithm with IPX entities.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Conditions:**

\- Network product documentation of the SEPP under test, containing the
information about the supported signature algorithms for JWS operation.

\- Test environment with a peer SEPP instance, which may be simulated.

\- Test environment with one node simulating an IPX-provider, which
supports JWS operation among others.

\- The SEPP under test and the peer SEPP have mutually authenticated and
already established N32-c connection.

\- The tester shall have access to the interfaces of the SEPP under
test, the peer SEPP, and the simulated IPX node.

\- The tester has configured both the SEPP under test and peer SEPP for
N32-f communication via the simulated IPX node.

\- The tester has configured a JWS profile differently from what is
required in TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 13.2.4.9 in the simulated IPX node
for JWS operation.

**Execution Steps:**

1\. The tester shall check that the supported JWS algorithms in the
network product documentation complies with the requirement on the
restriction.

2\. The tester sends a N32-f message from the peer SEPP via the
intermediate IPX node towards the SEPP under test.

3\. The IPX node modifies one or more attributes of the N32-f message
from the peer SEPP and creates a modifiedDataToIntegrityProtect object,
which is protected by the IPX node using the JWS algorithm configured by
the tester.

4\. The IPX node forwards the modified N32-f message to the SEPP under
test.

5\. Based on the internal log files, the tester validates how the
received N32-f message is handled by the SEPP under test.

**Expected Results:**

\- The modified N32-f message from the IPX node is discarded by the SEPP
under test.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.

#### 4.2.2.8 No misplacement of encrypted IEs in JSON object by IPX 

*Requirement Name:* No misplacement of encrypted IE in JSON object by
IPX

*Requirement Reference*: TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 13.2.3.4 and clause
13.2.4.1

*Requirement Description*:

\"The following basic validation rules shall always be applied
irrespective of the policy exchanged between two roaming partners:

\- IEs requiring encryption shall not be inserted at a different
location in the JSON object.\"

as specified in TS 33.501 \[3\], clause 13.2.3.4.

\"A SEPP shall verify that an intermediate IPX has not moved or copied
an encrypted IE to a location that would be reflected from the producer
NF in an IE without encryption\" as specified in TS 33.501 \[3\], clause
13.2.4.1.

*Threat References:* TR 33.926 \[4\], clause G.2.4.2 Exposure of
confidential IEs in N32-f message

*Test case*:

**Test Name:** TC\_NO\_ENCRYPTED\_IE\_MISPLACEMENT

**Purpose:**

Verify that the SEPP under test is able to verify that an intermediate
IPX has not misplaced (moved or copied) an encrypted IE to a different
location in a JSON object that would be reflected from the producer NF
for an IE without encryption.

**Procedure and execution steps:**

**Pre-Conditions:**

\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details how raw
public keys/certificates of peer SEPPs are to be configured and how
internal log files can be accessed.

\- A second SEPP instance for N32 communication with the SEPP under
test, which allows for the creation of custom N32-f messages. This
system may be simulated.

\- Both SEPPs are to be configured with a raw public key/certificate of
their communication peer to be able to establish a N32-c connection.

\- Test environment with one node simulating an IPX-provider. This
functionality includes parsing N32-f messages, creation of JSON-patches
for message modifications and JWS operations, among others. It is
configured with a modification policy.

\- An arbitrary Data-type encryption policy which includes at least one
information element requiring encryption on N32-f.

\- The SEPP under test is to be configured with the Data-type encryption
policy and the same modification policy as the one configured on the
simulated IPX-system.

**Execution Steps:**

1\. Both SEPPs are configured for N32-f communication via the simulated
IPX-system.

2\. Both SEPPs establish a mutual N32-c connection.

3\. The tester sends a N32-f message from the secondary SEPP via the
IPX-system towards the SEPP under test. This message needs to contain at
least one information element that requires encryption according to the
locally configured Data-type encryption policy.

4\. The IPX-system modifies the N32-f message according to its
configured modification policy. The tester then inserts the encBlockIDx
into a cleartext IE in the modified N32-f message before sending to the
SEPP under test.

5\. The IPX-system sends the modified N32-f message to the SEPP under
test.

6\. Based on the internal log files, the tester validates how the
received N32-f message is handled by the SEPP under test.

**Expected Results:**

\- The N32-f message is discarded by the SEPP under test. The error
defined in the clause 6.1.5.3.7 of TS 29.573\[6\] is sent by the SEPP
via N32-c interface.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.

### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline

#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction

The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.

#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information

##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

#### 4.2.3.6 Logging

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117
\[2\].

### 4.2.4 Operating Systems

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.2.5 Web Servers

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.2.6 Network Devices

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 in TS 33.117 \[2\].

4.3 SEPP-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.3.1 Introduction

The requirements proposed hereafter (with the relative test cases) aim
to securing SEPP by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In
particular, the identified requirements aim to ensure that all the
default configurations of SEPP (including operating system software,
firmware and applications) are appropriately set.

### 4.3.2 Technical baseline

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 in TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.3.3 Operating systems

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 in TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.3.4 Web servers

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 in TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.3.5 Network devices

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 in TS 33.117 \[2\].

### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 \[2\].

4.4 SEPP-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related test cases
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.4 in TS 33.117 \[2\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                             
  **date**             **Meeting**   **Tdoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                **New version**
  2019-09              SA\#85        SP-190702                                Presented for information and approval                                             1.0.0
  2019-09              SA\#85        SP-190910                                Revised to include the right version of the draft                                  1.0.1
  2019-09              SA\#85                                                 Change control version                                                             16.0.0
  2019-10                                                                     EditHelp review                                                                    16.0.1
  2019-12              SA\#86        SP-191138   0001     1         F         Adding abbreviations and corrections for alignment                                 16.1.0
  2021-03              SA\#91e       SP-210117   0005     1         F         Protection policies -- TBD updated                                                 16.2.0
  2021-03              SA\#91e       SP-210117   0006     1         F         Protection policies test case                                                      16.2.0
  2021-03              SA\#91e       SP-210117   0007     1         F         Clarification on confidential IEs replacement handling in original N32-f message   16.2.0
  2021-06              SA\#92e       SP-210446   0008     \-        F         Resolving EN on the error handling                                                 16.3.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
