![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-of-terms-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[6](#terms)

[6](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#nef-specific-security-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction)

[7](#nef-specific-security-functional-adaptations-of-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#introduction-1)

[7](#void)

[7](#security-functional-requirements-on-the-nef-deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-and-related-test-cases)

[7](#general)

[7](#security-functional-requirements-on-the-nef-deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-ts-33.501-2)

[9](#technical-baseline)

[9](#introduction-2)

[9](#protecting-data-and-information)

[9](#protecting-data-and-information-general)

[9](#protecting-data-and-information-unauthorized-viewing)

[9](#protecting-data-and-information-in-storage)

[9](#protecting-data-and-information-in-transfer)

[10](#logging-access-to-personal-data)

[10](#protecting-availability-and-integrity)

[10](#authentication-and-authorization)

[10](#protecting-sessions)

[10](#logging)

[10](#operating-systems)

[10](#web-servers)

[10](#network-devices)

[10](#void-1)

[10](#nef-specific-adaptations-of-hardening-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[10](#introduction-3)

[10](#technical-baseline-1)

[10](#operating-systems-1)

[11](#web-servers-1)

[11](#network-devices-1)

[11](#network-functions-in-service-based-architecture)

[11](#nef-specific-adaptations-of-basic-vulnerability-testing-requirements-and-related-test-cases)

[12](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Terms 3.2 Symbols
3.3 Abbreviations 4 NEF-specific security requirements and related test
cases 4.1 Introduction 4.2 NEF-specific security functional adaptations
of requirements and related test cases 4.2.0 Introduction 4.2.1 Void
4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the NEF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases 4.2.2.0 General 4.2.2.1 Security
functional requirements on the NEF deriving from 3GPP specifications --
TS 33.501 \[2\] 4.2.3 Technical Baseline 4.2.3.1 Introduction 4.2.3.2
Protecting data and information 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and
information -- general 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information --
unauthorized viewing 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in
storage 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer 4.2.3.2.5
Logging access to personal data 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and
integrity 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization 4.2.3.5 Protecting
sessions 4.2.3.6 Logging 4.2.4 Operating Systems 4.2.5 Web Servers 4.2.6
Network Devices 4.2.7 Void 4.3 NEF-specific adaptations of hardening
requirements and related test cases 4.3.1 Introduction 4.3.2 Technical
baseline 4.3.3 Operating systems 4.3.4 Web servers 4.3.5 Network devices
4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture 4.4 NEF-specific
adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related test
cases Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

1 Scope
=======

The present document contains requirements and test cases that are
specific to the NEF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of
General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific
adaptions of the requirements and test cases given there, as well as
specifying requirements and test cases unique to the NEF network product
class.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 33.501 (Release 15): \"Security architecture and
procedures for 5G system\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 33.122: \" Security aspects of Common API Framework
(CAPIF) for 3GPP northbound APIs\".

\[5\] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats
and critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance
requirements\".

3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
=================================================

3.1 Terms
---------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR
21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any,
in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

Void.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

CAPIF Common API Framework for 3GPP northbound APIs

NEF Network Exposure Function

4 NEF-specific security requirements and related test cases
===========================================================

4.1 Introduction
----------------

NEF specific security requirements include both requirements derived
from NEF-specific security functional requirements as well as security
requirements derived from threats specific to NEF as described in TR
33.926 \[5\]. Generic security requirements and test cases common to
other network product classes have been captured in TS 33.117 \[6\] and
are not repeated in the present document.

4.2 NEF-specific security functional adaptations of requirements and related test cases
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.2.0 Introduction

The present clause describes the security functional requirements and
the corresponding test cases for NEF network product class. The proposed
security requirements are classified in two groups:

\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 \[2\] and
detailed in clause 4.2.2.

\- General security functional requirements which include requirements
not already addressed in TS 33.501 \[2\] but whose support is also
important to ensure that NEF conforms to a common security baseline
detailed in clause 4.2.3.

### 4.2.1 Void

### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the NEF deriving from 3GPP specifications and related test cases

#### 4.2.2.0 General 

The general approach in TS 33.117 \[3\] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the
requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 \[3\] clause 4.2.2.2 related to
SBA/SBI aspect apply to the NEF network product class.

#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the NEF deriving from 3GPP specifications -- TS 33.501 \[2\]

4.2.2.1.1 Authentication on application function

*Requirement Name:* Authentication on application function

*Requirement Reference:* TS 33.501 \[2\], clause 5.9.2.3, and clause
12.2

*Requirement Description:* \"Mutual authentication between the NEF and
Application Function shall be supported\" as specified in TS 33.501
\[2\], clause 5.9.2.3. \"For authentication between NEF and an
Application Function that resides outside the 3GPP operator domain,
mutual authentication based on client and server certificates shall be
performed between the NEF and AF using TLS\" and \"Certificate based
authentication shall follow the profiles given in 3GPP TS 33.210 \[3\],
clause 6.2.\" as specified in TS 33.501 \[2\], clause 12.2.

*Threat References*: TR 33.926 \[5\], clause I.2.2.1, No authentication
on application function

***Test Case**:*

**Test Name:** TC\_CP\_AUTH\_AF\_NEF

**Purpose:** To verify that the NEF can authenticate application
function and establish TLS connection towards the application server
with certificate based authentication, and may authenticate application
function and establish TLS connection towards the application server
with pre-shared key based authentication.

**Pre-Condition:**

\- The NEF network product shall be connected in emulated/real network
environments.

\- In order to establish TLS connections to the NEF network product, the
application function shall offer a feature that is supported by the NEF
network product, including protocol version and combination of
cryptographic algorithms.

\- The application function and the NEF network product shall support
certificate based authentication, and may support pre-shared key based
authentication.

\- If the NEF network product does not support CAPIF as specified in
clause 6.2.5.1 in TS 23.501 \[3\], the certificates or the pre-shared
key shall be provisioned in the NEF network product.

\- If the NEF network product supports CAPIF, the certificates or the
pre-shared key shall be provisioned in the CAPIF core function, the
CAPIF core function shall be able to select appropriate authentication
method as defined in the sub-clause 6.5.2 in TS 33.122 \[4\].

**Execution Steps:**

1\. If certificate based authentication is used, provision correct
certificate on the application function, if pre-shared key based
authentication is used, provision same pre-shared key on the application
function.

2\. The application function shall initiate establishment of TLS
connection towards the NEF network product, and check whether a TLS
connection is established successfully.

3\. If certificate based authentication is used, provision incorrect
certificate on the application function, if pre-shared key based
authentication is used, provision different pre-shared key on the
application function.

4\. The application function shall initiate establishment of TLS
connection towards the NEF network product, and check whether no new TLS
connection is established.

**Expected Results:**

Only one TLS connection is established at step 2.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.

4.2.2.1.2 Authorization on northbound APIs

*Requirement Name:* Authorization on application function

*Requirement Reference:* TS 33.501 \[2\], clause 12.4

*Requirement Description:* \"The NEF shall authorize the requests from
Application Function using OAuth-based authorization mechanism, the
specific authorization mechanisms shall follow the provisions given in
RFC 6749 \[43\]\" as specified in TS 33.501 \[2\], clause 12.4.

*Threat References*: TR 33.926 \[5\], clause I.2.2.2, No authorization
on northbound APIs

***Test Case**:*

**Test Name:** TC\_CP\_AUTHOR\_AF\_NEF

**Purpose:** To verify that the NEF can authorize application function.

**Pre-Condition:**

\- The NEF network product shall be connected in emulated/real network
environments.

\- The application function and the NEF network product shall support
OAuth-based authorization mechanism.

\- An authorization server (e.g. NRF, or CAPIF core function) that
supports OAuth2 protocol to authorize NEF northbound APIs using the
\"Client Credentials\" authorization grant has been deployed.

\- The TLS connection between the NEF network product and the
application function has been established.

\- The authorization server is configured to grant the application
function to access a northbound API of the NEF network product, called
NEF northbound API A.

**Execution Steps:**

Test 1: without token:

1\. The application function invokes Obtain\_Authorization service
towards the authorization server to get a token from the authorization
server for accessing the NEF northbound API A.

2\. The application function invokes NEF northbound API A.

3\. The tester triggers the application function to invoke another
northbound API of the NEF network product, called NEF northbound API B,
without token.

Test 2: With incorrect token:

1\. The application function invokes Obtain\_Authorization service
towards the authorization server to get a token from the authorization
server for accessing the NEF northbound API A.

2\. The application function invokes NEF northbound API A.

3\. The tester triggers the application function to invoke the NEF
northbound API B with a fake token.

**Expected Results:**

The invoking of NEF northbound API A succeeds, while the invoking of NEF
northbound API B fails.

**Expected format of evidence:**

Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.

### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline

#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction

The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.

#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information

##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

#### 4.2.3.6 Logging

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117
\[6\].

### 4.2.4 Operating Systems

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

### 4.2.5 Web Servers

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

### 4.2.6 Network Devices

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

### 4.2.7 Void

4.3 NEF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.3.1 Introduction

The requirements proposed hereafter (with the relative test cases) aim
to securing NEF by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In particular,
the identified requirements aim to ensure that all the default
configurations of NEF (including operating system software, firmware and
applications) are appropriately set.

### 4.3.2 Technical baseline

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

### 4.3.3 Operating systems

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

### 4.3.4 Web servers

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

### 4.3.5 Network devices

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

4.4 NEF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related test cases
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 \[6\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                             **New version**
  2019-09              SA\#85                                                 Change control version                          16.0.0
  2019-10                                                                     EditHelp review                                 16.0.1
  2019-12              SA\#86        SP-191138   0002     1         F         Corrections for clean-up and alignment          16.1.0
  2020-12              Sa\#90E       SP-201004   0003     \-        F         Reference of general SBA/SBI aspect in 33.519   16.2.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------- -----------------
