![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[4](#introduction)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#technical-provisions)

[6](#annex-f-informative-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2
References 3 Technical provisions Annex F (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

In this document are specified three ciphering algorithms: A5/4 for GSM,
A5/4 for ECSD, and GEA4 for GPRS (including EGPRS). The algorithms are
stream ciphers that are used to encrypt/decrypt blocks of data under a
confidentiality key KC. Each of these algorithms is based on the KASUMI
algorithm that is specified in TS 35.202 \[5\]. The three algorithms are
all very similar. We first define a core keystream generator function
KGCORE (clause 4); we then specify each of the three algorithms in turn
(clauses 5, 6 and 7) in terms of this core function.

Note that:

\- GSM A5/4 is the same algorithms as GSM A5/3 but with KLEN changed
from 64 to 128 bits.

\- and ECSD A5/4 is the same algorithms as ECSD A5/3 but with KLEN
changed from 64 to 128 bits.

\- and GEA 4 is the same algorithms as GEA3 but with KLEN changed from
64 to 128 bits.

1 Scope
=======

This specification of the **A5/4** encryption algorithms for GSM and
ECSD, and of the **GEA4** encryption algorithm for GPRS has been derived
from TS 55.516 \[1\]: Specification of the A5/3 Encryption Algorithms
for GSM and ECSD, and the **GEA3** Encryption Algorithm for GPRS. The
only essential change is the change of external key length input from
64 bits to 128 bits.

This document should be read in conjunction with the entire
specification of the **A5/3** and **GEA3** algorithms:

\- Specification of the A5/3 Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and
the GEA3 Encryption Algorithm for GPRS. Document 1: A5/3 and GEA3
Specifications.

\- Specification of the A5/3 Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and
the GEA3 Encryption Algorithm for GPRS. Document 2: Implementors' Test
Data.

\- Specification of the A5/3 Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and
the GEA3 Encryption Algorithm for GPRS. Document 3: Design Conformance
Test Data.

The normative part of the specification of the block cipher (**KASUMI**)
on which the **A5/3**, **A5/4**, **GEA3** and **GEA4** algorithms are
based can be found in TS 35.202 \[5\].

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] to \[5\] (void)

\[6\] 3GPP Task Force Specification: \"3G Security; Specification of the
A5/4 Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and the GEA4 Encryption
Algorithm for GPRS\", version 9.0.0.

Note: Reference \[6\] is available via
<http://www.etsi.org/WebSite/OurServices/Algorithms/algorithms.aspx> and
is subject to licensing conditions described at this site.

3 Technical provisions
======================

The technical provisons of the current document are contained in the
3GPP Task Force Specification \[6\].

######## Annex F (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                 **Old**   **New**
  02-2004              \-           \-             \-       \-        Draft presented to SA WG3 for agreement             \-\--     0.1.0
  03-2004              SA\_23       SP-040170      \-       \-        Draft provided to TSG SA for information            0.1.0     1.0.0
  09-2009              SA\_45       SP-090647      \-       \-        Draft provided to TSG SA for approval               1.0.0     2.0.0
  09-2009              SA\_45       SP-090647      \-       \-        Approval at SA\#45 and placement under CR control   2.0.0     9.0.0
  2011-03              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                      9.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                      10.0.0    **11.0.0**
  2014-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                      11.0.0    **12.0.0**
  2016-01              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                      12.0.0    **13.0.0**
  2017-03              SA\#75       \-             \-       \-        Promotion to Release 14 without technical change    13.0.0    **14.0.0**
  2018-10              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                      14.0.0    **15.0.0**
  2020-07              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                      15.0.0    **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
