![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[4](#introduction)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#technical-provisions)

[7](#annex-b-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Symbols 3.3
Abbreviations 4 Technical provisions Annex B: Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

This Report has been produced by ETSI SAGE Task Force for the design of
the GSM A5/3 and GEA3 encryption algorithms.

The work described in this report was undertaken in response to a
request made by Security Group GSM Association. The work was done under
supervision of the ETSI Mobile Competence Centre (MCC) and the GSM
Association.

1 Scope
=======

This Technical Report has been prepared by the ETSI SAGE GSM A5/3 Task
Force, and gives a detailed report on the design and evaluation of the
A5/3 encryption algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and of the GEA3 encryption
algorithm for GPRS (including EGPRS).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] Void

\[2\] Void

\[3\] Void

\[4\] Void

\[5\] Void

\[6\] Void

\[7\] Void

\[8\] Void

\[9\] Void

\[10\] Void

\[11\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[12\] 3GPP Task Force Report: \"Specification of the A5/3 encryption
algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and the GEA3 encryption algorithm for GPRS;
Document 4: Design and evaluation report\".

Note: Reference \[2\] is available via
<http://portal.etsi.org/dvbandca/home.asp> and is subject to licensing
conditions described at this site.

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[11\] and in the 3GPP Task Force Report \[12\]
apply. A term defined in the latter document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 \[11\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the symbols defined in the
3GPP Task Force Report \[12\] apply.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[11\] and in the 3GPP Task Force Report \[12\] apply. An
abbreviation defined in the latter document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[11\].

4 Technical provisions
======================

The technical provisons of the current document are contained in the
3GPP Task Force Report \[2\].

######### Annex B: Change history

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  **Date**                                                                          **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                                                   **Old**     **New**
  2002-05                                                                           \-           \-             \-       \-        ETSI SAGE first publication                                                                                                                                       SAGE V1.0
  2002-07                                                                           \-           \-             \-       \-        Agreed at SA WG3 \#24 for presentation to TSG SA \#17 for approval. Converted into 3GPP TR format (TR 55.919) (Technically equivalent to SAGE V1.0)   SAGE V1.0   1.0.0
  2002-09                                                                           SP-17        SP-020506      \-       \-        Approved for Release 6 - version 6.0.0                                                                                                                1.0.0       6.0.0
  2002-12                                                                           SP-18        SP-020721      001      \-        EGPRS algoritm                                                                                                                                        6.0.0       6.1.0
  2007-12                                                                           SP-38        SP-070776      002      \-        Conversion to pointer to export controlled document                                                                                                   6.1.0       7.1.0
  2008-12                                                                           SP-42        \-             \-       \-        Upgrade to Release 8                                                                                                                                  7.1.0       8.0.0
  2009-12                                                                           SP-46        \-             \-       \-        Upgrade to Release 9                                                                                                                                  8.0.0       9.0.0
  Note: Version 7.0.0 is a \"readme\" file placeholder with no technical content.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  2011-03                                                                           \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                                                                                                        9.0.0       10.0.0
  2012-09                                                                           \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                                                                                                        10.0.0      **11.0.0**
  2014-09                                                                           \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                                                                                                        11.0.0      **12.0.0**
  2017-03                                                                           \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                                                                                                        12.0.0      **13.0.0**
  2017-03                                                                           SA\#75       \-             \-       \-        Promotion to Release 14 without technical change                                                                                                      13.0.0      **14.0.0**
  2018-06                                                                           \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                                                                                                        14.0.0      **15.0.0**
  2020-07                                                                           \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                                                                                        15.0.0      **16.0.0**
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------------
