![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1083333333333334in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#general)

[6](#composition-of-imei)

[6](#use-of-the-equipment-identity-register)

[6](#procedure)

[6](#use-of-imei-in-case-of-emergency-calls)

[7](#ms-software-version-number-svn)

[8](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 1.1 References
1.2 Definitions and abbreviations 2 General 3 Composition of IMEI 4 Use
of the equipment identity register 5 Procedure 6 Use of IMEI in case of
emergency calls 7 MS Software Version Number (SVN) Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document defines the principal purpose and use of
International Mobile station Equipment Identities (IMEI).

3GPP TS 23.003 describes the technical manner of numbering, addressing
and identification.

1.1 References
--------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".

\[3\] ISO/IEC 7812 (1989): \"Identification cards - Numbering system and
registration procedure for issuer identifiers\".

1.2 Definitions and abbreviations
---------------------------------

In addition to the following, abbreviations used in the present document
are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905.

**International Mobile Station Equipment Identity (IMEI) :** An
\"International Mobile Station Equipment Identity\" is a unique number
which shall be allocated to each individual mobile station equipment in
the PLMN and shall be unconditionally implemented by the MS
manufacturer.

2 General
=========

An MS can only be operated if a valid \"International Mobile Subscriber
Identity\" (IMSI) is present. An IMSI is primarily intended for
obtaining information on the use of the PLMN by subscribers for
individual charging purposes.

Besides the IMSI, the implementation of IMEI is found necessary in order
to obtain knowledge about the presence of specific mobile station
equipment in the network, disregarding whatever subscribers are making
use of these equipments.

The main objective is to be able to take measures against the use of
stolen equipment or against equipment of which the use in the PLMN can
not or no longer be tolerated for technical reasons.

The IMEI is incorporated in an UE module which is contained within the
UE. The IMEI shall be unique and shall not be changed after the ME's
final production process. It shall resist tampering, i.e. manipulation
and change, by any means (e.g. physical, electrical and software).

NOTE: This requirement is valid for new GSM MEs type approved after 1st
June 2002. However, this requirement is applicable to all 3GPP system
compatible UEs from start of production.

The manufacturer implementing the IMEI module in the ME is responsible
for ensuring that each IMEI within the allocatd range is unique to the
ME in which it resides, and is also responsible for keeping detailed
records of produced and delivered MEs.

3 Composition of IMEI
=====================

The composition of the IMEI shall be such that each individual mobile
station equipment can be separately identified.

Information is contained in the IMEI by which the PLMN, after requesting
it, can immediately decide whether or not to accept calls made by means
of this equipment.

Secondly, the IMEI shall directly or indirectly contain all information
which is necessary for the network operator to make relations through
its administrative system to trace the equipment to its origin of
production. 3GPP TS 23.003 \[2\] describes the structure of the IMEI in
detail.

The IMEI is complemented by a check digit. The check digit is not part
of the digits transmitted at IMEI check occasions, as described below.
The Check Digit shall avoid manual transmission errors, e.g. when
customers register stolen MEs at the operators customer care desk.

NOTE: The Check Digit is not applied to the Software Version Number.

4 Use of the equipment identity register
========================================

A network operator can make administrative use of the IMEI in the
following manner:

Three registers are defined, known as \"white lists\", \"grey lists\"
and \"black lists\". The use of such lists is at the operators\'
discretion.

The **white list** is composed of all **number series** of equipment
identities that are permitted for use.

The **black list** contains all equipment identities that belong to
equipment that need to be barred.

Besides the black and white list, administrations have the possibility
to use a **grey list**. Equipments on the grey list are not barred
(unless on the black list or not on the white list), but are tracked by
the network (for evaluation or other purposes).

5 Procedure
===========

It shall be possible to perform the IMEI check at any access attempt,
except IMSI detach, and during an established call at any time when a
dedicated radio resource is available, in accordance with the security
policy of the PLMN operator. It shall also be possible to perform the
IMEI check when a UE is IMS registered.

The network shall terminate any access attempt or ongoing call when
receiving any of the answers \"black-listed\" (i.e., on the black list)
or \"unknown\" equipment (i.e., not on the white list) from the EIR. An
indication of \"illegal ME\" shall in these cases be given to the user.
Furthermore this is equivalent to an authentication failure hence any
call or IMS session establishment or any location updating is forbidden
for the MS, it cannot answer to paging, it is just allowed to perform
Emergency Calls. Emergency calls must never be terminated as a result of
the IMEI check procedure.

6 Use of IMEI in case of emergency calls
========================================

Emergency calls can in some PLMNs be made without having to send the
subscriber identity (IMSI) to the network. In this case the misuse of MS
equipments after placing invalid emergency calls can be restrained by
using the equipment identity.

The network request for the equipment identity is sent to the MS after
the emergency call has been set-up. The procedure is the same as for
normal call set-up.

7 MS Software Version Number (SVN)
==================================

A Software Version Number (SVN) field shall be provided. This allows the
ME manufacturer to identify different software versions of a given
mobile.

The SVN is a separate field from the IMEI, although it is associated
with the IMEI. When the network requests the IMEI from the MS, it may
also request that the SVN is also sent towards the network.

The white list shall use the IMEI, The Black and Grey Lists may also use
the SVN.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- -------------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                      
  **TSG SA\#**         **SA Doc.**   **SA1 Doc**   **Spec**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Rel**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                             **Old**   **New**   **WI**
  Jun 1999                                         GSM 02.16                                          Transferred to 3GPP SA1                                                                         7.0.0               
  SA\#04                                           22.016                                             Transferred to 3GPP SA1                                                                                   3.0.0     
  SP-05                SP-99479      S1-99611      22.016      001                R99       D         Editorial changes for alignment                                                                 3.0.0     3.0.1     Editorial changes
  SP-06                SP-99601      P-99-777      22.016      002                R99       F         Modification of section 2 to enhance IMEI security                                              3.0.1     3.1.0     
  SP-08                SP-000195     S1-000441     22.016      003      1         R99       F         IMEI coding                                                                                     3.1.0     3.2.0     
  SP-08                SP-000194     S1-000266     22.016      004                R99       F         Modification of section 2 to delete unnecessary information about phases and releases removed   3.1.0     3.2.0     
  SP-11                SP-010065     S1-010258     22.016                         Rel-4               Transferred to 3GPP Release 4                                                                   3.2.0     4.0.0     
  SP-15                SP-020045     S1-020457     22.016      006      \-        Rel-4     F         Editorial CR to correct terms and references                                                    4.0.0     4.1.0     CORRECT
  SP-16                SP-020237     S1-021149     22.016      008                Rel-4     A         Type approval code                                                                              4.0.0     4.1.0     TEI
  SP-16                SP-020267     S1-021043     22.016                         Rel-5               Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5                                                                      4.1.0     5.0.0     
  SP-26                SP-040744     S1-040997     22.016                         Rel-6               Updated from Rel-5 to Rel-6                                                                     5.0.0     6.0.0     
  SP-34                SP-060768     S1-061444     22.016      0009     \-        Rel-7     F         IMEI Check and IMS                                                                              6.0.0     7.0.0     TEI7
                                                   22.016                         Rel-7               Editorial correction to version identity on front cover                                         7.0.0     7.0.1     
  SP-42                SP-080891     S1-083445     22.016      0010     1         Rel-7     F         Correction of SVN sending when network requests IMEI                                            7.0.1     7.1.0     TEI7
                                                                                                      Rel-8 version created                                                                           7.1.0     8.0.0     
  SP-45                SP-090470     S1-093278     22.016      0013     2         Rel-9     A         Clarify that each IMEI shall be unique                                                          8.0.0     9.0.0     TEI9
                                                                                                      2010-04: correct history table                                                                  9.0.0     9.0.1     
  2011-03              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                                                  9.0.1     10.0.0    
  2012-09                                                                                             Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                                                  10.0.0    11.0.0    
  2014-10              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                                                  11.0.0    12.0.0    
  2015-12                                                                                             Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                                                  12.0.0    13.0.0    
  2017-03              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-14 by MCC                                                                        13.0.0    14.0.0    
  2018-06              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-15 by MCC                                                                        14.0.0    15.0.0    
  2020-07              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-16 by MCC                                                                        15.0.0    16.0.0    
  -------------------- ------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- -------------------
