![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#abbreviations-and-definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#definitions)

[7](#description)

[7](#general)

[7](#applicability)

[7](#general-bearer-services)

[7](#parameters-to-be-indicated-and-negotiated)

[7](#call-set-up)

[8](#t-services)

[8](#nt-services)

[8](#network-initiated-modification)

[8](#t-services-1)

[9](#nt-services-1)

[9](#user-initiated-modification)

[9](#t-services-2)

[9](#nt-services-2)

[9](#air-interface-resource-allocation)

[9](#minimum-geran-air-interface-resource-allocation-and-allocation-increment)

[9](#flexible-air-interface-resource-allocation)

[9](#symmetric-and-asymmetric-connections)

[9](#symmetric-connections)

[9](#asymmetric-connections)

[9](#asymmetric-air-interface-connection)

[10](#channel-coding-asymmetry)

[10](#network-choice-of-connection-symmetry)

[10](#user-equipmentmobile-equipment-requirements)

[10](#mobility-management)

[10](#roaming)

[11](#quality-of-service)

[11](#bit-error-rate)

[11](#geran-tchf-bit-error-rate)

[11](#overall-gbs-bit-error-rate)

[11](#geran-radio-resource-management)

[11](#call-set-up-delay)

[11](#end-to-end-delay)

[11](#throughput)

[11](#network-planning-and-interference-levels)

[11](#mapping-of-fnur-to-geran-tchf-for-t-services)

[11](#mapping-of-geran-aiur-to-geran-tchf-for-nt-services)

[12](#gbs-mmi-aspects)

[12](#gbs-subscription-aspects)

[12](#gbs-charging-aspects)

[12](#o-and-m-aspects)

[12](#multislot-security-aspects)

[13](#exceptional-procedures-or-unsuccessful-outcome)

[13](#interworking-requirements)

[13](#service-interworking)

[13](#interworking-with-supplementary-services)

[13](#interworking-with-other-services)

[13](#network-interworking)

[14](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations and definitions 3.1 Abbreviations 3.2 Definitions 4
Description 4.1 General 4.2 Applicability 4.3 General Bearer Services
4.4 Parameters to be indicated and negotiated 4.4.1 Call set-up 4.4.1.1
T services 4.4.1.2 NT services 4.4.2 Network initiated modification
4.4.2.1 T services 4.4.2.2 NT services 4.4.3 User initiated modification
4.4.3.1 T services 4.4.3.2 NT services 4.5 Air Interface Resource
Allocation 4.5.1 Minimum GERAN Air Interface Resource Allocation and
Allocation Increment 4.5.2 Flexible Air Interface Resource Allocation
4.6 Symmetric and asymmetric connections 4.6.1 Symmetric connections
4.6.2 Asymmetric connections 4.6.2.1 Asymmetric air interface connection
4.6.2.2 Channel coding asymmetry 4.6.3 Network choice of connection
symmetry 4.7 User Equipment/Mobile Equipment requirements 4.8 Mobility
Management 4.9 Roaming 4.10 Quality of Service 4.10.1 Bit error rate
4.10.1.1 GERAN TCH/F Bit Error Rate 4.10.1.2 Overall GBS Bit Error Rate
4.10.2 GERAN Radio resource management 4.10.3 Call set-up delay 4.10.4
End-to-end delay 4.10.5 Throughput 4.10.6 Network planning and
interference levels 4.11 Mapping of FNUR to GERAN TCH/F for T services
4.12 Mapping of GERAN AIUR to GERAN TCH/F for NT services 4.13 GBS MMI
aspects 4.14 GBS Subscription aspects 4.15 GBS charging aspects 4.16 O
and M aspects 4.17 Multislot security aspects 5 Exceptional procedures
or unsuccessful outcome 6 Interworking requirements 6.1 Service
interworking 6.1.1 Interworking with supplementary services 6.1.2
Interworking with other services 6.2 Network interworking Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the Stage 1 description of High Speed
Circuit Switched Data (HSCSD). HSCSD is a feature that introduce General
Bearer Services and a multislot mechanism is used for user rates that
can be achieved with one or more TCH/F. Multislot also defines a
flexible use of air interface resources which makes efficient and
flexible use of higher user rates feasible.

The Multislot mechanism is only applicable to GERAN.

At UTRAN radio access parameters used for GBS user data are specified at
TS 23.107.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 405.002: \" Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio
path\".

3 Abbreviations and definitions
===============================

3.1 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

AIUR Air Interface User Rate

EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution

FNUR Fixed Network User Rate

GBS General Bearer Services

GERAN GSM/EDGE radio access network

HSCSD High Speed Circuit Switched Data

MO Mobile Originated

MT Mobile Terminated

NT Non Transparent

T Transparent

UE User Equipment (same as MS in GSM specifications)

Additional abbreviations can be found in TS 22.905 \[1\].

3.2 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**Fixed Network User Rate:** user rate between IWF and the fixed
network.

**Air Interface User Rate:** user rate between Mobile Termination and
IWF. For T services it is the maximum possible AIUR not including
padding. For NT services it is the maximum possible AIUR.

**maximum possible GERAN AIUR:** highest possible GERAN AIUR that the
multiple TCH/F can provide, e.g. 2 TCH/F using TCH/F9.6 provides a
maximum possible AIUR of 19,2 kbit/s.

**padding:** fill bits needed to adapt the maximum possible AIUR
supported by a given number of TCH/F with a given channel coding to a
FNUR that is lower than the maximum possible AIUR.

4 Description
=============

4.1 General
-----------

HSCSD is a feature that introduce General Bearer Services (GBS) and a
multislot mechanism is used for user rates that can be achieved with one
or more TCH/F. HSCSD also defines mechanisms for the use of air
interface resources which makes efficient and flexible use of higher
user rates feasible. The Multislot mechanism is only applicable to
GERAN.

4.2 Applicability
-----------------

GBS shall provide flexible ways of supporting GSM Phase 2, T and NT data
services and new data services at the higher rates. Data compression
shall be applicable to NT GBS. Supplementary Services applicable to the
General Bearer Services are specified at TS 22.004, \[3\].

4.3 General Bearer Services
---------------------------

The General Bearer Services are defined in TS 22.002 \[2\].

The General Bearer Services (GBS) consist of two Bearer Services, and
they are as follows:

\- asynchronous;

\- synchronous.

4.4 Parameters to be indicated and negotiated
---------------------------------------------

### 4.4.1 Call set-up

The parameters to be indicated, and negotiated, if applicable, during
the call set-up shall include:

\- FNUR;

\- GERAN Channel coding(s) acceptable (for the call);

\- maximum number of GERAN TCH/F (that the mobile user can accept);

\- wanted AIUR (desired rate that the mobile user wants the network to
allocate). The wanted AIUR is applicable to NT services only;

-   indication if the user initiated modification is required, and if
    so, the network resource needs;

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   channel coding asymmetry indication.

Some of the parameters are only utilised by GERAN. When UTRAN radio
access bearer is allocated the values are ignored.

The GERAN channel coding(s) acceptable shall be indicated by the mobile
at call set-up and is not negotiable. It indicates the GERAN channel
coding(s) that may be chosen by the network for the call.

The maximum number of GERAN TCH/F shall be indicated at call set-up. It
enables the mobile user to limit the number of GERAN TCH/F used and thus
to control an essential parameter for charging. It sets the upper limit
of number of TCH/F that the network may allocate to the mobile.

The wanted AIUR (applicable to NT services only) indicates the AIUR that
the mobile user wants and which the network shall try to reach but which
it is not allowed to exceed. The exception where the network is allowed
to exceed the wanted AIUR is when the network can achieve the GERAN AIUR
with a lower number of TCH/F, e.g. wanted GERAN AIUR indicated by the
mobile is 14,4 kbit/s, GERAN channel codings acceptable are both
TCH/F9.6 and TCH/F4.8 and maximum number of TCH/F are 3, then the
network shall choose 2 x 9,6 over 3 x 4,8 if a channel coding of
TCH/F9.6 is available on two TCH/F.

If the user wishes to make use of the user initiated modification
procedure, this shall be indicated at the call set-up.

It shall be possible to reserve a different FNUR than the AIUR.

Channel coding asymmetry indication is only applicable to NT calls where
the user has indicated acceptance for channel coding(s) based on
enhanced modulation. In this case the user may indicate preference for
channel coding symmetry, downlink biased channel coding asymmetry, or
uplink biased channel coding asymmetry. The channel coding asymmetry
indication is only applicable in direction UE to network.

#### 4.4.1.1 T services

The ME or the network may propose to modify the FNUR. The calling entity
may accept or release the call. Autobauding is not allowed.

The AIUR is always equal to the FNUR.

Fax Group 3 can make use of HSCSD.

The GERAN channel coding selected must be one of the channel coding(s)
indicated in the channel coding(s) acceptable parameter, the number of
TCH/F selected shall not exceed the maximum number of TCH/F parameter,
and the combination of the two shall result in an AIUR that is equal to
the FNUR.

#### 4.4.1.2 NT services

The ME or the network may propose to modify the FNUR. The calling entity
may accept or release the call. Autobauding is allowed.

The wanted AIUR is indicated by the mobile at call set-up.

### 4.4.2 Network initiated modification

#### 4.4.2.1 T services

For transparent calls the radio resource parameters must remain within
limits that allow the transparent call to maintain it is characteristics
of fixed end to end throughput and delay. This means that in GERAN the
channel coding and the number of TCH/F used may change during the call
as long as a channel coding indicated in the channel coding(s)
acceptable parameter is used, the maximum number of TCH/F is not
exceeded and the AIUR is kept constant.

#### 4.4.2.2 NT services

For NT calls the network may modify the number of TCH/F and the channel
coding used at GERAN and thus also the AIUR during the call as long as
the maximum number of TCH/F, and the channel coding(s) acceptable are
all respected. The network shall try to reach the wanted GERAN AIUR
indicated, as long as the resource situation allows it.

### 4.4.3 User initiated modification

The in-call modification feature shall be supported in case of alternate
services.

#### 4.4.3.1 T services

The user initiated modification is not applicable to T services.

#### 4.4.3.2 NT services

The user may indicate a change of the parameters maximum number of GERAN
TCH/F, wanted AIUR, and channel coding asymmetry. No other parameters
may be modified.

The user initiated modification is only applicable to the data phase of
alternate services.

4.5 Air Interface Resource Allocation
-------------------------------------

### 4.5.1 Minimum GERAN Air Interface Resource Allocation and Allocation Increment

Air interface resources shall be allocated to HSCSD calls at TCH/F
increments. The minimum air interface resource allocation for HSCSD
calls shall be one TCH/F.

### 4.5.2 Flexible Air Interface Resource Allocation

Flexible air interface resource allocation enables:

\- the network to allocate dynamically resources related to the air
interface usage according to the network operator\'s strategy, within
the limits negotiated at the call set-up or during a user initiated
modification.

4.6 Symmetric and asymmetric connections
----------------------------------------

### 4.6.1 Symmetric connections

For symmetric connections, air interface resources are allocated
symmetrically.

### 4.6.2 Asymmetric connections

There are two types of asymmetry, asymmetric air interface connection
and channel coding asymmetry. Asymmetric air interface connection
implies that more time slots are used in the downlink than in the uplink
at GERAN. Channel coding asymmetry implies that one channel coding is
used in the uplink and another channel coding is used in the downlink at
GERAN.

#### 4.6.2.1 Asymmetric air interface connection

The provision of the asymmetric air interface connections allows simple
ME (of Type 1, Reference TS 405.002, \[4\]) to receive at higher AIUR
than otherwise would be possible with a symmetric connection.

Asymmetric air interface connections that are a subset of the symmetric
HSCSD, and support different user rates at uplink and downlink, shall be
provided.

Asymmetric air interface connections are only applicable to the
downlink-biased asymmetry, i.e., where the ME is receiving at a higher
rate than it is transmitting.

Asymmetric air interface connections shall only be applicable to NT GBS.

#### 4.6.2.2 Channel coding asymmetry

Channel coding asymmetry may be set up by the network in three cases:

\- if the UE only supports enhanced modulation in the downlink;

\- if the UE supports enhanced modulation in both links, but the user
indicates preference for uplink or downlink biased channel coding
asymmetry;

\- if the UE supports enhanced modulation in both links, and the user
indicates preference for channel coding symmetry, but the link
conditions justifies different channel codings in up- and downlink.

In the case when preference of uplink or downlink biased channel coding
asymmetry is indicated by the user, and a asymmetric channel coding
connection is set up based on this indication, the network shall always
assign a TCH/F14.4 channel at GERAN on the unbiased link.

Channel coding asymmetry shall only be applicable to NT services
applying the GERAN channel codings TCH/F14.4, TCH/F28.8 and TCH/F43.2.

In case a symmetric channel coding connection is set up, the link
adaptation mechanism may change a symmetric channel coding connection to
an asymmetric channel coding connection.

### 4.6.3 Network choice of connection symmetry

When the network has a choice of allocating either a symmetric or an
asymmetric air interface connection it shall proceed as follows:

\- in the case where the wanted AIUR is smaller than or equal to the
AIUR supported symmetrically by the ME, or asymmetric air interface
connection is not supported by the network, then a symmetric air
interface connection is established;

\- in the case where the wanted AIUR exceeds the AIUR supported
symmetrically by the ME, the network shall assign the maximum AIUR
supported by the ME in the down-link at GERAN, upper-bounded by the
maximum number of TCH/F indicated by the mobile user, and the number of
TCH/F supported by the network, maintaining the minimum of one TCH/F.

4.7 User Equipment/Mobile Equipment requirements
------------------------------------------------

The general UE capabilities is applicable to HSCSD.

A ME that supports multislot mechanism shall support one or more of the
GERAN channel types TCH/F at or above 4,8 kbit/s.

Given that the ME supports a certain GERAN channel coding, the network
shall be able to assume that the ME can support this channel coding in
any multislot configuration allowed by its multislot class (Reference
TS 45.002, \[4\]).

4.8 Mobility Management
-----------------------

HSCSD shall be provided for within the existing supported Mobility
Management.

4.9 Roaming
-----------

Roaming shall be possible.

4.10 Quality of Service
-----------------------

### 4.10.1 Bit error rate

#### 4.10.1.1 GERAN TCH/F Bit Error Rate

The bit error rate performance of each TCH/F of a multiple TCH/F HSCSD
call shall be the same as that of a single TCH/F data call for the same
channel coding.

#### 4.10.1.2 Overall GBS Bit Error Rate

Any increase in the bit error rate caused by the splitting and combining
of multiple GERAN TCH/F shall be kept to a minimum.

### 4.10.2 GERAN Radio resource management

The multislot mechanism shall be provided for within the existing Radio
Resource management control functions, including the relevant handover
types. The handover shall be simultaneous for all air interface
timeslots making up the call.

The multislot mechanism shall be provided with full mobility.

### 4.10.3 Call set-up delay

Any increase in call set-up delay of the GBS calls compared to GSM
Phase 2 data services shall be kept to a minimum.

### 4.10.4 End-to-end delay

Any increase in end-to-end delay of the GBS calls compared to GSM
Phase 2 data services shall be kept to a minimum.

### 4.10.5 Throughput

The throughput for GBS T calls shall remain constant for the duration of
the call except for the interruption of transmission at handover.

### 4.10.6 Network planning and interference levels

The impact of multislot mechanism on network planning and interference
levels shall be kept to a minimum.

4.11 Mapping of FNUR to GERAN TCH/F for T services
--------------------------------------------------

For some FNUR padding is required to adapt the maximum possible AIUR to
the FNUR.

4.12 Mapping of GERAN AIUR to GERAN TCH/F for NT services
---------------------------------------------------------

The following table indicates the mapping of AIUR to the number of TCH/F
for NT services.

Table 1: Mapping of AIUR to TCH/F for NT services

  --------------------- ---------- ---------- ----------- ----------- -----------
  AIUR                  TCH/F4.8   TCH/F9.6   TCH/F14.4   TCH/F28.8   TCH/F43.2
  4,8 kbit/s            1          N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A
  9,6 kbit/s            2          1          N/A         N/A         N/A
  14,4 kbit/s           3          N/A        1           N/A         N/A
  19,2 kbit/s           4          2          N/A         N/A         N/A
  28,8 kbit/s           N/A        3          2           1           N/A
  38,4 kbit/s           N/A        4          N/A         N/A         N/A
  43,2 kbit/s           N/A        N/A        3           N/A         1
  57,6 kbit/s           N/A        N/A        4           2           N/A
  N/A Not applicable.                                                 
  --------------------- ---------- ---------- ----------- ----------- -----------

For Fixed Network User Rates (FRUR) see TS 22.002 \[2\].

NOTE: GERAN TCH/F28.8 and GERAN TCH/F43.2 require EDGE capability.

4.13 GBS MMI aspects
--------------------

It shall be possible to configure the parameters negotiated and
indicated at GBS call set-up and during user initiated modification.

4.14 GBS Subscription aspects
-----------------------------

HSCSD is not subscribed to. Users wanting to use multislot mechanism
must subscribe to the General Bearer Services.

4.15 GBS charging aspects
-------------------------

To allow accurate charging of multislot calls, a record of start and
stop timestamps versus the number of TCH/F, for each change in TCH/F
allocation, shall be provided.

NOTE: For MO multislot calls, the A party is liable for the use of all
the TCH/F in her PLMN.

For MT multislot calls, the B party may have to pay for one or more of
the TCH/F in her PLMN.

In case the originating or terminating subscriber is a fixed network
subscriber, there should be no additional charge (in respect of the
changing allocation of GERAN TCH/F) for the originating or terminating
fixed network subscriber.

4.16 O and M aspects
--------------------

For GBS call, there are several new and modified parameters compared to
GSM Phase 2 data calls.

For GBS, the air interface resource allocation may change several times
during the call (network initiated and user initiated changes). It shall
be possible to limit the frequency of changes per call, separately for
network initiated and user initiated changes.

Multislot calls can occupy multiple TCH/F. It shall dynamically be
possible to limit the maximum number of GERAN TCH/F allowed for GBS
calls per cell.

4.17 Multislot security aspects
-------------------------------

Authentication and ciphering are applicable to multislot calls with no
or minimal reduction in the security of the air interface.

5 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
================================================

When a GBS call is offered to an entity (either ME or network) unable to
support the offered GBS call, it shall be possible, within the
limitations of the service, to revert the call:

\- to an GBS call the entity can support; or

\- at GERAN to a GSM Phase 2 data service.

6 Interworking requirements
===========================

6.1 Service interworking
------------------------

### 6.1.1 Interworking with supplementary services

Supplementary Services that are applicable to the General Bearer
Services can be used (Reference TS 22.004, \[3\]).

### 6.1.2 Interworking with other services

The simultaneous use of multislot mechanism and SMS MO/PP, and multislot
mechanism and SMS MT/PP services shall be possible.

6.2 Network interworking
------------------------

Interworking should be possible to all networks which are covered by GSM
Phase 2 bearer services:

\- PSTN;

\- ISDN.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ---------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                      
  **TSG SA\#**         **SA Doc.**   **SA1 Doc**   **Spec**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Rel**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                              **Old**   **New**   **Work Item**
  SP-04                                            02.34                                             Transferred to 3GPP SA1 at ETSI SMG\#29                          8.1.0     3.0.0     
  SP-05                SP-99479      S1-99615      22.034     001                R99       D         Editorial changes for alignment                                  3.0.0     3.1.0     
  SP-05                SP-99448      S1-99706      22.034     002                R99       B         Channel coding asymmetry for ECSD                                3.0.0     3.1.0     
  SP-07                SP-000057     S1-000052     22.034     003                R99       C         CR on HSCSD changes for 3GPP                                     3.1.0     3.2.0     
  April 2000                                                                                         Editorial correction to title (Release 1999, not Release 2000)   3.2.0     3.2.1     
  SP-11                SP-010065     S1-010258     22.004                        Rel-4               Transferred to 3GPP Release 4                                    3.2.1     4.0.0     
  SP-16                SP-020239     S1-020890     22.034     004                Rel-4     F         CR to 22.034 Correction of terminology and references            4.0.0     4.1.0     Correct
  SP-16                SP-020267     S1-021043     22.034                        Rel-5               Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5                                       4.1.0     5.0.0     
  SP-26                SP-040744     S1-040997     22.034                        Rel-6               Updated from Rel-5 to Rel-6                                      5.0.0     6.0.0     
  SP-36                                            22.034                        Rel-7               Updated from Rel-6 to Rel-7                                      6.0.0     7.0.0     
  SP-42                \-            \-                                          Rel-8               Updated from Rel-7 to Rel-8                                      7.0.0     8.0.0     
  SP-46                \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-                  Updated to Rel-9 by MCC                                          7.0.0     9.0.0     
  2011-03              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                   9.0.0     10.0.0    
  2012-09              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                   10.0.0    11.0.0    
  2014-10              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                   11.0.0    12.0.0    
  2015-12                                                                                            Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                   12.0.0    13.0.0    
  2017-03              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-14 by MCC                                         13.0.0    14.0.0    
  2018-06              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-15 by MCC                                         14.0.0    15.0.0    
  SP-88e               \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-16 by MCC                                         15.0.0    16.0.0    
  -------------------- ------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ---------------
