![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1097222222222223in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#normative-references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#immediate-service-termination-ist)

[6](#description)

[6](#applicability)

[6](#normal-procedure)

[6](#exception-procedures)

[6](#security-requirements-between-hplmn-and-vplmn)

[7](#annex-a-informative-normal-procedure)

[8](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 Normative
references 3 Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Abbreviations 4 Immediate Service Termination (IST) 4.1 Description 4.2
Applicability 4.3 Normal procedure 4.4 Exception procedures 5 Security
requirements between HPLMN and VPLMN Annex A (Informative): Normal
procedure Annex B (Informative): Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

This Technical Specification specifies the stage 1 description of the
Immediate Service Termination (IST) service which provides the means for
the HPLMN to terminate all the activities of an HPLMN subscriber in a
VPLMN.

The purpose of this network feature is to enable the HPLMN to control
the activities of its subscribers, particularly while they are roaming.
If the HPLMN decides (based upon information received via Fraud
Information Gathering System (FIGS) or other systems) that a roaming
subscriber is behaving in a fraudulent or suspicious manner, the HPLMN
can terminate all activities of the subscriber, including calls
(including transferred and diverted calls) that are in progress.

This procedure can also be used to terminate all the activities of a
subscriber when the subscription has ended.

The primary aim is to enable service providers/network operators to use
IST to reduce the amount of money that they lose because of roaming
fraud.

2 Normative references
======================

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of this specification the following definitions apply:

**subscriber activities:** subscriber activities that must be
terminated. These can be call related events (e.g. call set-up, call
termination) or the invocation of call related and call independent
supplementary services (e.g. Call Hold, Call Waiting, Call Transfer,
Call Forwarding, Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD)).

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following abbreviations apply:

**IST** Immediate Service Termination

**FIGS** Fraud Information Gathering System

4 Immediate Service Termination (IST)
=====================================

4.1 Description
---------------

It shall be possible for the Home Public Land Mobile Network (HPLMN) to
instruct any PLMN to terminate immediately all the activities of a
specified HPLMN subscriber.

Immediate Service Termination (IST) is controlled by the HPLMN and can
be triggered by the HPLMN only.

A subscriber shall be specified by the International Mobile Subscriber
Identity (IMSI).

For subscribers that are marked as subscribed to a CAMEL-based service,
IST shall be possible using Customised Application for Mobile network
Enhanced Logic (CAMEL).

IST shall also be possible for subscribers who are not marked as
subscribed to any CAMEL-based service (see Annex A).

4.2 Applicability
-----------------

This network feature applies to all subscribed Bearer Services and
Teleservices of the subscriber, except for emergency calls.

4.3 Normal procedure
--------------------

The HPLMN will normally direct a request for IST for a particular
subscriber to the current Visited PLMN (VPLMN) of that subscriber and
the PLMN visited by the subscriber immediately prior to visiting the
current VPLMN

NOTE: In practice, the IST command will be sent to individual
Mobile-services Switching Centres (MSCs), and not to \"VPLMNs\" as a
whole (but such detail is for Stage 2 and not Stage 1). IST will
therefore be sent to all MSCs in which the subscriber has (or may have)
an active call, as logged by the HPLMN. These MSCs may be confined to
the current VPLMN or may include MSC(s) in the PLMN visited by the
subscriber immediately prior to visiting the current VPLMN (or PLMNs
visited even earlier).

The VPLMN shall confirm receipt of the IST command.

The VPLMN shall then terminate all activities of that subscriber in the
VPLMN including ongoing calls and forwarded, deflected and transferred
calls. The call records of calls terminated by the operation of IST
shall contain a field indicating that the call terminated because of the
operation of IST.

The VPLMN shall then confirm to the HPLMN that all subscriber activities
in that VPLMN have been terminated.

If the specified subscriber has no activities in the VPLMN then the
VPLMN shall inform the HPLMN of this.

4.4 Exception procedures
------------------------

If after sending an IST command to a VPLMN, the HPLMN does not receive a
positive acknowledgement from the VPLMN indicating receipt and
comprehension of the IST command, the HPLMN should assume that the VPLMN
does not support IST.

5 Security requirements between HPLMN and VPLMN
===============================================

It is expected that there will be a need for authentication and
confidentiality of the communication made between PLMNs.

These issues are for study under other work items within the SMG10 work
programme.

######## Annex A (Informative): Normal procedure

IST has been defined to work in co-ordination with existing GSM
facilities.

1\) The HPLMN changes the subscriber\'s entry in the HLR to prevent the
resumption of activity in the HPLMN and VPLMN after IST has terminated
all subscriber activity.

2\) The HPLMN sends a MAP \"Cancel Location\" command to the VLR to
prevent the resumption of activity by the subscriber within the VPLMN
without reference to the HPLMN.

3\) The HPLMN sends an IST command to the VPLMN, (possibly a specific
MAP message).

4\) The VPLMN confirms receipt and comprehension of the command.

5\) The VPLMN terminates all activities of the subscriber indicated by
the command.

6\) The VPLMN confirms to the HPLMN that all subscriber activities have
been terminated.

######## Annex B (Informative): Change History

  ---------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------
  Change history                                                                                                                                                                                 
  **Date**                                                   **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                         **Old**        **New**
  Status of GSM 02.32                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                      No Phase 1 version                                                         
  06-1997                                                    SMG\#22                                                  to SMG\#22 for information                                                 1.0.0
  03-1998                                                    SMG\#25                                                  to SMG\#25 for approval                                     1.0.0          2.0.0
  03-1998                                                    SMG\#25                                                  TS approved by SMG\#25. IST is part of Release 98           2.0.0          7.0.0
  06-1998                                                    SMG\#26                     A001     \-        C         CR 02.32-A001 (cat C) approved by SMG\#26                   7.0.0          7.1.0
  08-1999                                                                                                             R98 publication version                                     7.1.0          7.1.1
  04-2000                                                                                                             R99 publication version                                     7.1.1          8.0.0
  Status of TS 42.032 (Created from TS 02.32 Release 1999)                                                                                                                                       
  SP-11                                                      02.32                                                    Upgrade to 42.032 Release 4 (3GPP numbering)                02.32 8.0.0    42.032 4.0.0
  Status of TS 22.032 (Created from TS 42.032 Release 4)                                                                                                                                         
  06-2002                                                    SP-16                                                    Decision to transfer IST to 3GPP system specification set   42.032 4.0.0   22.032 4.0.0
  06-2002                                                    SP-16                                                    Upgrade to Rel‑5                                            4.0.0          5.0.0
  12-2004                                                    SP-26                                                    Upgrade to Rel‑6                                            5.0.0          6.0.0
  06-2007                                                    SP-36                                                    Upgrade to Rel‑7                                            6.0.0          7.0.0
  12-2008                                                    SP-42        \--            \--      \--       \--       Upgrade to Rel‑8                                            7.0.0          8.0.0
  12-2009                                                    SP-46        \-             \-       \-        \-        Upgrade to Rel‑9                                            8.0.0          9.0.0
  2011-03                                                    \-           \-             \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                              9.0.0          10.0.0
  2012-09                                                    \-           \-             \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                              10.0.0         11.0.0
  2014-09                                                    \-           \-             \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                              11.0.0         12.0.0
  2015-12                                                                                                             Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                              12.0.0         13.0.0
  2017-03                                                    \-           \-             \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)                              13.0.0         **14.0.0**
  2018-06                                                    \-           \-             \-       \-        \-        \-                                                          14.0.0         **15.0.0**
  2020-07                                                    \-           \-             \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                              15.0.0         **16.0.0**
  ---------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------
