![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.3159722222222223in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#applicability)

[7](#description)

[8](#normal-procedures-with-successful-outcome)

[8](#exceptional-procedures)

[8](#addressing)

[8](#supplementary-services-and-service-interworking)

[8](#calling-line-identification-presentation-clip)

[9](#calling-line-identification-restriction-clir)

[9](#connected-line-identification-presentation-colp)

[9](#connected-line-identification-restriction-colr)

[9](#call-forwarding-unconditional-cfu)

[9](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-busy-cfb)

[9](#call-forwarding-on-no-reply-cfnry)

[9](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc)

[9](#call-waiting-cw)

[9](#call-hold-hold)

[9](#multiparty-services-mpty)

[9](#closed-user-group)

[9](#advice-of-charge-services)

[10](#barring-of-all-outgoing-calls-baoc)

[10](#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls-boic)

[10](#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls-except-those-directed-to-the-home-plmn-country-boic-exhc)

[10](#barring-of-all-incoming-calls-baic)

[10](#barring-of-incoming-calls-when-roaming-outside-the-home-plmn-country-bic-roam)

[10](#explicit-call-transfer-ect)

[10](#completion-of-calls-to-busy-subscriber-ccbs)

[10](#support-of-private-numbering-plan-spnp)

[10](#multiple-subscriber-profile-msp)

[10](#enhanced-multi-level-priority-and-pre-emption-emlpp)

[10](#interworking-with-other-network-features)

[10](#customised-applications-for-mobile-network-enhanced-logic-camel)

[11](#support-of-optimal-routing-sor)

[11](#networking-interworking)

[11](#charging-aspects)

[11](#lawful-interception-issues)

[12](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Applicability 5 Description 6 Normal procedures with successful outcome
7 Exceptional procedures 8 Addressing 9 Supplementary Services and
Service Interworking 9.1 Calling line identification presentation (CLIP)
9.2 Calling line identification restriction (CLIR) 9.3 Connected line
identification presentation COLP) 9.4 Connected line identification
restriction (COLR) 9.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) 9.6 Call
Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB) 9.7 Call Forwarding on No
Reply (CFNRy) 9.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable
(CFNRc) 9.9 Call Waiting (CW) 9.10 Call hold (HOLD) 9.11 Multiparty
services (MPTY) 9.12 Closed User Group 9.13 Advice of Charge services
9.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC) 9.15 Barring of Outgoing
International Calls (BOIC) 9.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls
except those directed to the Home PLMN Country (BOIC-exHC) 9.17 Barring
of All Incoming Calls (BAIC) 9.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when roaming
outside the home PLMN country (BIC-Roam) 9.19 Explicit Call Transfer
(ECT) 9.20 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) 9.21 Support of
Private Numbering Plan (SPNP) 9.22 Multiple Subscriber Profile (MSP)
9.23 enhanced Multi-Level Priority and Pre-emption (eMLPP) 10
Interworking with other network features 10.1 Customised Applications
for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) 10.2 Support of Optimal
Routing (SOR) 11 Networking interworking 12 Charging aspects 13 Lawful
Interception Issues Annex A: (informative) Change history

  {#section .list-paragraph}

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

This TS defines the stage one description of the Support of Mobile
Number Portability between networks in the same country as well as North
America cross-sector portability (i.e.,. number portability between
fixed and 3GPP system). Stage one is an overall service description,
primarily from the service subscriber\'s and user\'s points of view, but
does not deal with the details of the human interface itself.

Mobile Number Portability (MNP) is applicable only to those
telecommunication services identified by an MSISDN.

This specification includes information applicable to network operators,
service providers and terminal, switch and database manufacturers.

This specification contains the core requirements for the Support of
Mobile Number Portability between network operators in the same country
as well as North America cross-sector portability which are sufficient
to provide a complete service.

Other cross-sector portability options (e.g. number portability between
fixed and mobile networks outside the North American Region) are outside
the scope of this technical specification. It is highly desirable
however, that technical solutions for MNP should be sufficiently
flexible to allow for possible enhancements, e.g. cross-sector number
portability, and MNP between analogue and digital mobile networks.
Additional functionalities not documented in this specification may
implement requirements which are considered outside the scope of this
specification. This additional functionality may be on a network-wide
basis, nation-wide basis or particular to a group of users. Such
additional functionality shall not compromise conformance to the core
requirements of the service.

Porting between Service Providers (i.e. service provider portability)
which does not involve a change of Network Operator is outside the scope
of this specification.

The relationship between Service Providers and Network Operators is
outside the scope of this specification.

The relationship between a Service Provider and subscriber is outside
the scope of this specification. The interface between the User
Equipment (UE) and any external applications are outside the scope of
this specification. Charging principles are outside the scope of this
specification except where explicitly stated in the text.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of this specification the following definitions apply:

**number range owner network**: The network to which the number range
containing the ported number has been allocated.

**directory number:** any E.164 dialable number assigned to a wireline
or a wireless subscriber. A DN can be a 10-digit number in the context
of the North American Numbering Plan (without a country code) or up to
15 digits for an international number(country code included).

**donor network**: The subscription network from which a number is
ported in the porting process. This may or may not be the number range
owner network.

**mobile number portability**: The ability for a mobile subscriber to
change digital mobile subscription network within the same country
retaining their original DN(s). Additional regulatory constraints apply
in North America.

**network operator**: A PLMN operator.

**North American GSM number portability**: the ability for a subscriber
to change subscription between North American GSM networks and other
subscription networks within an FCC regulated geographical area within
North America

**originating network**: the network where the calling party is located.

**ported number**: Is a MSISDN that has undergone the porting process.

**ported subscriber**: The subscriber of a ported number.

**porting process**: A description of the transfer of a number between
network operators.

**recipient network**: The network which receives the number in the
porting process. This network becomes the subscription network when the
porting process is complete.

**service provider**: An entity which offers service subscriptions to
individual subscribers and contracts with a network operator to
implement services for a specific DN. A service provider may contract
with more than one network operator.

**service provider portability**: The transfer of numbers between two
unique Service Providers.

**subscription network**: The network with which the customer's Service
Provider has a contract to implement the customer's services for a
specific DN.

NOTE: The term \"recipient network\" is used during the porting process.
The recipient network becomes the \"subscription network\" after the
completion of the porting process.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of this specification the following abbreviations
apply:

DN Directory Number

IMPI IP multimedia CN subsystem Private Identity

MMI Man Machine Interface

MNP Mobile Number Portability

MSISDN Mobile Station ISDN number

NAGNP North American GSM Number Portability

PLMN Public Land Mobile Network

SIM Subscriber Identity Module

USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module

Further related abbreviations are given in TR 21.905 \[1\].

4 Applicability
===============

Mobile Number Portability cannot be offered to a subscriber as a stand
alone service. Mobile Number Portability is applicable to all
teleservices (e.g. SMS, voice, fax), IP Multimedia services and bearer
services (e.g. data), except for TS12 (emergency call).

The implementation of MNP shall be flexible enough to apply to each DN
of a subscriber separately. Where the DNs used in the donor network are
ported to different recipient mobile networks then a new IMSI/IMPI (and
SIM/USIM/ ISIM) will be required for each recipient network. The basic
and supplementary services provisioned in the recipient network shall
not be dependent on those that were provisioned in the donor network.

5 Description
=============

Mobile Number Portability (MNP) is the ability for a mobile subscriber
to change digital mobile subscription networks within the same country
whilst retaining her original DN or DNs. Additional regulatory
constraints apply in North America.

North American GSM Number Portability (NAGNP) is the ability for a
subscriber to change subscription between North American GSM networks
and other subscription networks within an FCC regulated geographical
area within North-America.

The IMSI/IMPI shall not be ported, hence the recipient mobile network of
the porting process will issue a new IMSI/IMPI for the ported
subscription. The porting process may, but need not, include a change in
service provider.

The ported subscriber can use exactly the same services as non-ported
customers in the same subscription network. That is: whether the DN of a
subscriber belongs to a subscription network or is ported to the
subscription network shall have no influence on the services offered to
the customer by that subscription network.

The services offered by the number range owner network and/or the donor
network have no influence on the services offered by the subscription
network. When a subscriber ports a DN to a new network then the donor
network no longer provides support for the services of the ported number
(this includes supplementary and value added services).

NOTE: This also implies that if a service supported in the donor network
is not available on the recipient network then number portability
mechanisms need not provide that service for the ported subscriber.

A network can be a donor of numbers and a recipient of numbers. A DN can
be ported more than once; a ported number can be ported back to its
number range owner network. Even after multiple portings, the technical
solution shall involve only the number range owner network and recipient
network.

The solution for MNP/NAGNP shall have a minimal adverse effect upon the
quality of service offered to ported and non-ported subscribers. It may
be the case that the quality of service for ported and non-ported
subscribers differs slightly (e.g. due to additional call set-up delay).

Any additional delay in call set-up to ported numbers shall be
minimised.

The process of porting a number may involve a disruption in service to
the customer. The time that no service is available shall be minimised.

The technical implementation of the support of MNP/NAGNPin a network
should not impede number availability and efficient use of numbers.

The technical implementation for the support of MNP/NAGNPshall not
involve loss of functionality in the number range owner, donor or
subscription network.

The technical implementation of MNP/NAGNPshall support optimisation of
the use of network and inter-network resources so as to minimise costs
associated with transport of traffic and/or appropriate signalling
and/or processing activities (e.g. optimal routing).

In addition, for the porting process an efficient and effective way is
needed to exchange porting information between all types of network
operators.

6 Normal procedures with successful outcome
===========================================

Mobile Number Portability is offered to all subscribers of telephone
services subject to regulatory requirements.

A porting process is initiated at a subscriber's request on their
selected DN(s) with the relevant networks. Initiation of the porting
process is an off-line administrative process and cannot be invoked via
a specific MMI on the hand-set.

After successful porting the subscriber, is able to use the provisioned
telephone services and network specific services of the subscription
network as offered to non-ported subscribers on that network. Porting
will effectively initiate a new subscription

As part of the porting process, the donor, number range owner and
recipient networks shall update their relevant network elements in order
to perform the porting. After the porting process is complete, the
subscription details related to the ported DN on the donor network shall
not be required and can be deleted. Therefore, only the number range
owner network and the recipient network are involved in the
MNP/NAGNPsolution for support of service to the ported subscriber.

The originating network may not be aware of the ported nature of the
number; therefore the technical solution shall work even if networks
other than the number range owner and recipient have no knowledge of the
ported nature of the number.

NOTE: Other networks may be involved to increase the efficiency of
call-set-up to ported numbers.

When a ported subscriber takes an additional DN at her subscription
network that additional DN should not have to come from the number range
owner network(s) of the subscriber's ported numbers.

Where number ranges are assigned to network operators, the number range
owner network shall receive the ported number back from the recipient
network when the subscriber relinquishes the ported number, i.e. when
the ported number ceases to be an active service number.

7 Exceptional procedures
========================

Service related data (e.g. numbers used in the call-forwarding service,
etc.) may not be transferred to the recipient network during the porting
process.

8 Addressing
============

As a consequence of MNP, the DN of a subscriber may no longer explicitly
identify the subscription network of that subscriber.

9 Supplementary Services and Service Interworking
=================================================

The support of mobile Number Portability in a network shall not affect
the handling of supplementary service for the subscribers, i.e. there
shall be no difference in the handling of the supplementary services
between ported in and normal subscribers of the same network.

9.1 Calling line identification presentation (CLIP)
---------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.2 Calling line identification restriction (CLIR)
--------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.3 Connected line identification presentation COLP)
----------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.4 Connected line identification restriction (COLR)
----------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
---------------------------------------

No impact.

9.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
---------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
---------------------------------------

No impact.

9.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
--------------------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.9 Call Waiting (CW)
---------------------

No impact.

9.10 Call hold (HOLD)
---------------------

No impact.

9.11 Multiparty services (MPTY)
-------------------------------

No impact.

9.12 Closed User Group
----------------------

No impact.

What happens if the subscription of CUG changes between the original
call and the CCBS call?, Where is the information stored?

9.13 Advice of Charge services
------------------------------

No impact.

9.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC)
-----------------------------------------

No impact.

9.15 Barring of Outgoing International Calls (BOIC)
---------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those directed to the Home PLMN Country (BOIC-exHC)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC)
-----------------------------------------

No impact.

9.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country (BIC-Roam)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.19 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
---------------------------------

No impact.

9.20 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
--------------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.21 Support of Private Numbering Plan (SPNP)
---------------------------------------------

No impact.

9.22 Multiple Subscriber Profile (MSP)
--------------------------------------

The porting process may apply on a per profile basis.

9.23 enhanced Multi-Level Priority and Pre-emption (eMLPP)
----------------------------------------------------------

No impact.

10 Interworking with other network features
===========================================

10.1 Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

No impact.

10.2 Support of Optimal Routing (SOR)
-------------------------------------

No impact.

NOTE: This is a service requirement. However, it may be difficult to
find an MNP solution with no impact on Optimal Routing.

11 Networking interworking
==========================

All services offered in co-operation with other types of networks shall
still be offered in combination with MNP. This includes the basic
services, all supplementary services and all network features.

12 Charging aspects
===================

Enough information shall be collected to allow different tariffs to be
applied to calls and short messages in the following case:

• The calling subscriber is roaming in her home PLMN

and

• The called subscriber is a subscriber of any of the PLMNs in the
country of the calling subscriber\'s home PLMN

In this case the collected information shall allow to distinguish
between

• Calls and short messages directed to a called subscriber who
subscribes to the calling subscriber's home PLMN

• Calls and short messages directed to a called subscriber who does not
subscribe to the calling subscriber's home PLMN.

Enough information should be collected to allow the involved networks to
workout inter-network charging.

13 Lawful Interception Issues
=============================

Lawful interception shall be possible on a ported MSISDN.

(Ed's Note: This section is temporarily in this document and once
approved it will be moved to GSM 02.33).

(Ed's Note: This section is temporarily in this document and once
approved it will be moved to GSM 02.33).

######## Annex A: (informative) Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- --------- ---------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                
  **TSG SA\#**         **SA Doc.**   **SA1 Doc**   **Spec**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Rel**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                        **Old**   **New**   **Work Item**
  Jun 1999                                         02.66                                             Transferred to 3GPP SA1                                                                    7.0.0               
  SA\#04                                           22.066                        R99                 Version 3.0.0 Approved                                                                               3.0.0     
  SP-05                SP-99479      S1-99621      22.066     001                R99       D         Editorial changes for alignment to 3GPP                                                    3.0.0     3.0.1     
  SP-07                SP-000061     S1-000134     22.066     002                R99       B         PCS-1900 Service Provider Number Portability impacts for Mobile Number Portability         3.0.1     3.1.0     
  SP-08                SP-000207     S1-000434     22.066     003                R99       F         North American Service Provider Number Portability impacts for Mobile Number Portability   3.1.0     3.2.0     
  SP-11                SP-010065     S1-010258     22.066                        Rel-4               Transferred to 3GPP Release 4                                                              3.0.1     4.0.0     
  SP-16                SP-020267     S1-021043     22.066                        Rel-5               Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5                                                                 4.0.0     5.0.0     
  SP-18                SP-020655     S1-021910     22.066     004                Rel-6     B         CR to 22.066 on IMS number portability                                                     5.0.0     6.0.0     IMS
  SP-20                SP-030263     N4-030451     22.066     006      1         Rel-6     A         Charging Requirements in an MNP environment                                                6.0.0     6.1.0     TEI5
  SP-36                                            22.066                        Rel-7               Updated from Rel-6 to Rel-7                                                                6.1.0     7.0.0     
  SP-42                \-            \-                                          Rel-8               Updated from Rel-7 to Rel-8                                                                7.0.0     8.0.0     
  SP-46                \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-9 by MCC                                                                    8.0.0     9.0.0     
  2011-03              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                                             9.0.0     10.0.0    
  2012-09              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-11 by MCC                                                                   10.0.0    11.0.0    
  2014-10              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                                             11.0.0    12.0.0    
  2015-12              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        Rel-13    \-        Updated to Rel-13 by MCC                                                                   12.0.0    13.0.0    
  2017-03              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-14 by MCC                                                                   13.0.0    14.0.0    
  2018-06              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-15 by MCC                                                                   14.0.0    15.0.0    
  SA\#88e              \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-16 by MCC                                                                   15.0.0    16.0.0    
  -------------------- ------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- --------- ---------------
