![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.4319444444444445in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#description-of-optimal-routing)

[6](#functional-requirements)

[6](#general)

[6](#normal-operation)

[7](#a-is-a-fixed-subscriber-or-a-mobile-subscriber-who-may-not-benefit-from-or)

[8](#a-is-a-mobile-subscriber-who-may-benefit-from-or)

[8](#description-of-the-call-routing)

[9](#call-scenarios-handled-in-or-phase-1)

[13](#exceptional-procedures-or-unsuccessful-outcome)

[13](#non-support-of-sor-in-the-vplmn-of-the-caller)

[13](#non-support-of-sor-in-the-hplmn-of-the-b-subscriber)

[13](#non-support-of-sor-in-the-vplmn-of-the-b-subscriber)

[13](#calls-to-special-mobile-network-numbers)

[14](#interactions-of-optimal-routing-with-supplementary-services)

[14](#call-forwarding)

[14](#call-barring)

[14](#call-transfer)

[14](#call-deflection)

[14](#advice-of-charge)

[14](#interactions-of-optimal-routing-with-operator-determined-barring-odb)

[14](#interactions-of-optimal-routing-with-camel)

[15](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 4 Description of Optimal Routing 5
Functional requirements 5.1 General 5.2 Normal operation 5.2.1 A is a
fixed subscriber or a mobile subscriber who may not benefit from OR
5.2.2 A is a mobile subscriber who may benefit from OR 5.2.2.1
Description of the call routing 5.2.2.2 Call scenarios handled in OR
Phase 1 5.3 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome 5.3.1
Non-support of SOR in the VPLMN of the caller 5.3.2 Non-support of SOR
in the HPLMN of the B subscriber 5.3.3 Non support of SOR in the VPLMN
of the B subscriber 5.3.4 Calls to special mobile network numbers 6
Interactions of Optimal Routing with Supplementary Services 6.1 Call
Forwarding 6.2 Call Barring 6.3 Call Transfer 6.4 Call Deflection 6.5
Advice of Charge 7 Interactions of Optimal Routing with Operator
Determined Barring (ODB) 8 Interactions of Optimal Routing with CAMEL
Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

This Stage 1 description of the first phase of Support of Optimal
Routing (SOR):

\- compiles the basic service requirements for SOR;

\- describes the interactions for Supplementary Services (SS) in order
to cater for SOR;

\- refers to modifications to network features required by SOR.

This specification does not address the following:

\- There is no need for optimisation of the routing of calls originally
directed to a fixed network subscriber, because the physical address of
a fixed network terminating line cannot differ from its logical address.

\- SOR in non-PLMNs is not a subject of this TS, but might be possible
by bilateral arrangement between PLMN operators and those non-PLMN
operators.

The purpose of SOR is to reduce the number of unnecessary inter-PLMN
call legs.

The first phase of SOR applies to:

\- OR for the benefit of the B party i.e. Mobile terminated calls with
late call forwarding to the home or visited country (scenarios 1 and 2),

and optionally;

\- OR for the benefit of the A party, e.g. Mobile to mobile calls where
both mobile subscribers are in the same country (scenarios 3 to 10).

The complete set of scenarios included in the phase 1 of OR is presented
in the paragraph for normal procedures. All other scenarios are excluded
from Phase 1 of OR.

Note that Optimal Routing is applicable to national roaming situations,
that is to calls directed to a mobile subscriber roaming in her home
country, but registered in a PLMN different from her HPLMN.

All further call scenarios, including multiple call forwarding, are left
to subsequent phases of SOR. Subsequent phases of SOR shall be backwards
compatible with this first phase.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

**Administrative PLMN:** The complete set of all functional entities
normally regarded as a single PLMN.

**Basic OR :** Routeing of a call by the direct route when no forwarding
occurs.

**Direct route:** A call uses the direct route if it is routed from the
serving network of the original calling party to the serving network of
the ultimate called party without any intermediate PLMN.

**HPLMN route:** A call uses the HPLMN route if the destination is
deduced from the MSISDN of the called party. This forces the call to be
routed via the HPLMN of the called party.

**HPLMN leg:** The HPLMN leg is that part of the HPLMN route from the
IPLMN to the HPLMN of the called party.

**IPLMN:** An IPLMN is a PLMN which interrogates the HPLMN of a called
party in order to determine the whereabouts of that party.

**Early Call Forwarding :** Early Call Forwarding is Call Forwarding
performed from the IPLMN before the call has been extended to the VPLMN
of the forwarding subscriber (i.e. Call Forwarding Unconditional and
Conditional Call Forwarding on Not Reachable known at the IPLMN before
extension of the call)

**Functional PLMN:** For the purposes of this description the
Administrative PLMN is divided into functional PLMNs that represent
different aspects of the Optimal Routeing functionality.

**Late Call Forwarding:** Late Call Forwarding is Call Forwarding
performed after the call has been extended to the VPLMN of the
forwarding subscriber (i.e. Conditional Call Forwarding on Busy,
Conditional Call Forwarding on No Reply and Conditional Call Forwarding
on Not Reachable detected in the VPLMN of the forwarding subscriber).
Late Call Forwarding may be invoked in the IPLMN or in the VPLMN of the
forwarding subscriber.

**Special mobile network number:** For the purposes of this description
special mobile network numbers are numbers belonging logically to a PLMN
but not to a mobile subscriber. Examples are the customer service number
or value added service numbers.

Abbreviations are given in TR 21.905 \[1\].

4 Description of Optimal Routing
================================

Support of Optimal Routing (SOR) is a network feature which enables the
calls directed to a mobile subscriber to be routed directly to the
mobile subscriber\'s actual location, or to her forwarded-to destination
(instead of via the HPLMN or in the case of Late Call Forwarding via the
VPLMN).

The IPLMN handling the call shall decide whether or not to optimise the
routing of the call taking into account information provided by the
called mobile subscriber\'s HPLMN. For given subscribers, as a network
option, the HPLMN may permit or deny OR on a per call basis.

5 Functional requirements
=========================

5.1 General
-----------

SOR shall be provided for all circuit switched Telecommunication
Services, except emergency calls, Dedicated PAD and Dedicated Packet
Access (GPRS is for further study).

The network feature shall be applied automatically for all calls except
for those calls for which the HPLMN of the called party denies the
optimal routing.

5.2 Normal operation
--------------------

In the first phase of SOR, the routes of calls will be optimised for the
cases of OR being performed within a country or towards the country
where the call would have been routed normally.

Under all other circumstances, the basic call routing is applied:

\- If the IPLMN detects that basic OR cannot be applied, the IPLMN
routes the call according to the dialled number.

\- If the IPLMN detects that OR for Late Call Forwarding cannot be
applied, the Call Forwarding will be performed in the VPLMN of the
forwarding subscriber.

If the serving network of the ultimate destination supports SOR, the
serving network of the caller shall be able to indicate to the network
visited by the ultimate destination that the call has been optimally
routed and to indicate the originating PLMN of the optimally routed leg.

The complete set of scenarios included in phase 1 of SOR is described
below.

The notation used for the scenario diagrams is defined in figure 1.

Figure 1: Notation used in scenario diagrams

If one of those scenarios occurs, SOR shall be invoked.

The assumptions taken are the following :

\- A subscriber A sets up a call to a mobile subscriber B, who may have
forwarded her calls to a subscriber C.

\- The C subscriber may be either a fixed subscriber or a mobile
subscriber.

If C is a mobile subscriber, the location of C taken into account in the
following paragraphs is the location of HPLMN-C.

### 5.2.1 A is a fixed subscriber or a mobile subscriber who may not benefit from OR

As the originating network does not have the ability to interrogate the
HPLMN of the B subscriber, the normal call handling is applied.

Once the HPLMN of the B subscriber has the control of the call, the call
may be optimised in the case of a forwarded call towards a party located
in the Home Country of the B subscriber or in the country visited by the
B subscriber.

NOTE: - A may be in any country.\
- In the two following cases, the IPLMN is HPLMN-B.

Scenario 1: OR for Late Call Forwarding, C is in the same country as
HPLMN-B

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information

Scenario 2: OR for Late Call Forwarding, C is in the same country as
VPLMN-B

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information

### 5.2.2 A is a mobile subscriber who may benefit from OR

#### 5.2.2.1 Description of the call routing

If A sets up a call to B, then the originating PLMN shall interrogate
the HPLMN of the mobile subscriber B in order to know how to route the
call.

If B is registered in the same country as A, then the call shall be
routed directly to B as described below.

If B has activated a Call Forward to a destination located in the Home
Country of B or in the country where A is registered and this leads to
the invocation of Early Call Forwarding, then the call shall be routed
directly from A to the forwarded-to-party.

In any other cases, the call shall be routed to the mobile subscriber B
via HPLMN(B).

If the call cannot be completed, the originating PLMN shall receive an
indication of the reason of the failure of the call completion.

Thereafter, if the mobile subscriber B has activated a Conditional Call
Forward to a destination located in her Home Country or to a destination
in the country where A is registered and this leads to the invocation of
Late Call Forwarding, then the originating PLMN shall route the call
directly to the forwarded-to-party.

The remaining leg of the call from the intermediate point to the
ultimate destination may be optimally routed.

#### 5.2.2.2 Call scenarios handled in OR Phase 1 

In the following scenarios, the IPLMN is VPLMN-A.

**1) The call from the A subscriber to the B subscriber is completed
(Basic OR)**

a\) B is located in the same country as A

Scenario 3: BASIC OR, B in the same country as A

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information

b\) B is located in her Home Country (Network usage optimization)

Scenario 4: BASIC OR, B in her home country

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information

**2) The call set up by the subscriber A is being forwarded to a C
party**

**2.1) Early Call Forward**

NOTE: for the two following scenarios, the location of B is not
relevant.

a\) the C party is in the same country as the A subscriber, but
different from HPLMN B country.

Scenario 5: Early CF, C in the same country as A

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information.

b\) the C party is in the same country as HPLMN-B

Scenario 6: Early CF, C in the same country as HPLMN-B

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information

**2.2) Late Call Forward**

a\) B and C are in the same country as A

Scenario 7: BASIC OR + OR for Late Call Forwarding, B in the same
country as A, C in the same country as A

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information

b\) B is in the same country as A and C is in the same country as
HPLMN-B

Scenario 8: BASIC OR + OR for Late Call Forwarding, B in the same
country as A, C in the same country as HPLMN-B

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information

c\) B is in her home country and C is in the same country as A

Scenario 9: BASIC OR + OR for Late Call Forwarding, B in the same
country as HPLMN-B, C in the same country as A

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information

d\) B and C are in the country of HPLMN-B

Scenario 10: BASIC OR + OR for Late Conditional Call Forwarding, B in
the same country as HPLMN-B, C in the same country as HPLMN-B

NOTE: Call records shown in the figure are only for information.

5.3 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
--------------------------------------------------

### 5.3.1 Non-support of SOR in the VPLMN of the caller

If subscriber A roams into a network not supporting OR, she may not
benefit from OR and only scenario 1 and scenario 2 of SOR are supported.

### 5.3.2 Non-support of SOR in the HPLMN of the B subscriber

If the HPLMN of the called party does not support SOR, SOR cannot be
invoked and the route of the call as far as the called party's VPLMN
cannot be optimised (the call would normally be routed via the HPLMN of
the called party).

The same procedure shall be followed if the HPLMN operator denies OR on
a subscriber basis.

### 5.3.3 Non support of SOR in the VPLMN of the B subscriber

If a subscriber whose HPLMN supports SOR registers in a VPLMN which does
not support SOR, only the cases of Early Forwarded calls may be
optimised.

### 5.3.4 Calls to special mobile network numbers

If the called number is a special mobile network number of the HPLMN,
the HPLMN has to guarantee that the call terminates at its correct
destination. This can be achieved by denying OR for this call by sending
an appropriate error cause or by implementing a special handling.

6 Interactions of Optimal Routing with Supplementary Services
=============================================================

No Interaction unless it is stated differently below.

6.1 Call Forwarding
-------------------

Interactions between SOR and Call Forwarding are dealt with in clause
5.0.

6.2 Call Barring
----------------

Outgoing Call Barring services are applied according to the dialled
number.

Barring of Incoming calls when Roaming outside the HPLMN country will
prevent calls to a mobile subscriber who has roamed outside her HPLMN
country even if OR would result in no chargeable roaming leg.

The existing interactions between Call Forwardings and Call Barrings are
not changed by the introduction of OR.

6.3 Call Transfer
-----------------

A transferred call is considered as a set of two separate calls which
may be separetely optimally routed.

Optimal Routing shall not be invoked as a result of the invocation of
Call Transfer.

6.4 Call Deflection
-------------------

A deflected call is considered as a late forwarded call and as such may
be optimally routed.

6.5 Advice of Charge
--------------------

Depending on call scenarios, AoC may not work properly.

7 Interactions of Optimal Routing with Operator Determined Barring (ODB)
========================================================================

The principles for the interaction between operator determined barring
and SOR are the same as those for the interaction between Supplementary
Service Call Barring and SOR.

8 Interactions of Optimal Routing with CAMEL
============================================

If CAMEL has to be applied to the Mobile Originating part of the call
and if CAMEL modifies the destination of the call, the OR applies to any
destination introduced by CAMEL.

If CAMEL has to be applied to the Mobile Terminating part of the call or
a forwarding leg, the modified destination is treated for optimal
routeing in the same way as a forwarded-to number.

If Barring services are also applicable to the call then they have to be
handled first together with CAMEL before SOR is applied.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Change history</strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>TSG SA#</strong></td>
<td><strong>SA Doc.</strong></td>
<td><strong>SA1 Doc</strong></td>
<td><strong>Spec</strong></td>
<td><strong>CR</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rev</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rel</strong></td>
<td><strong>Cat</strong></td>
<td><strong>Subject/Comment</strong></td>
<td><strong>Old</strong></td>
<td><strong>New</strong></td>
<td><strong>WI</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Jun 1999</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>GSM</p>
<p>02.79</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP SA1</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SA#04</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>22.079</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP SA1</td>
<td></td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-05</td>
<td>SP-99479</td>
<td>S1-99627</td>
<td>22.079</td>
<td>001</td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td>D</td>
<td>Editorial changes for alignment</td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td>3.0.1</td>
<td>Editorial changes</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-11</td>
<td>SP-010065</td>
<td>S1-010258</td>
<td>22.079</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-4</td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP Release 4</td>
<td>3.0.1</td>
<td>4.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-16</td>
<td>SP-020267</td>
<td>S1-021043</td>
<td>22.079</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5</td>
<td>4.0.0</td>
<td>5.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-26</td>
<td>SP-040744</td>
<td>S1-040997</td>
<td>22.079</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-6</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-5 to Rel-6</td>
<td>5.0.0</td>
<td>6.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-36</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>22.079</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-7</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-6 to Rel-7</td>
<td>6.0.0</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-42</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-8</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-7 to Rel-8</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td>8.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-46</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-9 by MCC</td>
<td>8.0.0</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2011-03</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
<td>10.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2012-09</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-11 by MCC</td>
<td>10.0.0</td>
<td>11.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2014-10</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)</td>
<td>11.0.0</td>
<td>12.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2015-12</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-13 by MCC</td>
<td>12.0.0</td>
<td>13.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2017-03</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-14 by MCC</td>
<td>13.0.0</td>
<td>14.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2018-06</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-15 by MCC</td>
<td>14.0.0</td>
<td>15.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SA#88e</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-16 by MCC</td>
<td>15.0.0</td>
<td>16.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
