![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.3159722222222223in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#description)

[7](#description-1)

[7](#applicability-to-telecommunication-services)

[7](#normal-procedures-with-successful-outcome)

[7](#provision)

[7](#withdrawal)

[8](#registration-and-erasure)

[8](#activation-and-deactivation)

[8](#invocation)

[8](#interrogation)

[8](#handling-of-uus-services)

[8](#activation)

[8](#service-1)

[9](#service-2)

[9](#service-3)

[9](#uus-required-request)

[9](#invocation-and-operation)

[10](#service-1-1)

[10](#service-2-1)

[10](#service-3-1)

[10](#charging-requirements)

[10](#exceptional-procedures-or-unsuccessful-outcome)

[10](#provision-and-withdrawal)

[10](#registration-and-erasure-1)

[10](#handling-of-uus-services-1)

[10](#activation-1)

[11](#invocation-1)

[11](#interactions-with-other-supplementary-services)

[11](#call-forwarding-unconditional)

[11](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-busy)

[11](#call-forwarding-on-no-reply)

[12](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-not-reachable)

[12](#call-waiting)

[12](#call-hold)

[12](#completion-of-calls-to-busy-subscribers)

[12](#explicit-call-transfer)

[12](#multi-party-service)

[12](#advice-of-charge)

[13](#barring-of-outgoing-calls)

[13](#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls)

[13](#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls-except-those-directed-to-the-home-plmn-country)

[13](#barring-of-incoming-calls)

[13](#barring-of-incoming-calls-when-roaming-outside-the-home-plmn-country)

[13](#call-deflection)

[13](#interactions-with-other-network-features)

[13](#support-of-optimal-routeing)

[13](#multicall)

[13](#interworking-considerations)

[14](#annex-a-informative-deviations-of-the-3gpp-uus-supplementary-service-from-the-isdn-service)

[15](#annex-b-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3 Definitions
and Abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 Description 4.1
Description 4.2 Applicability to telecommunication services 5 Normal
procedures with successful outcome 5.1 Provision 5.2 Withdrawal 5.3
Registration and Erasure 5.4 Activation and Deactivation 5.5 Invocation
5.6 Interrogation 5.7 Handling of UUS services 5.7.1 Activation 5.7.1.1
Service 1 5.7.1.2 Service 2 5.7.1.3 Service 3 5.7.1.4 \"UUS required\"
request 5.7.2 Invocation and operation 5.7.2.1 Service 1 5.7.2.2 Service
2 5.7.2.3 Service 3 5.7.2.4 Charging requirements 6 Exceptional
procedures or unsuccessful outcome 6.1 Provision and Withdrawal 6.2
Registration and Erasure 6.3 Handling of UUS services 6.3.1 Activation
6.3.2 Invocation 7 Interactions with other supplementary services 7.1
Call forwarding unconditional 7.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy 7.3 Call forwarding on no reply 7.4 Call forwarding on mobile
subscriber not reachable 7.5 Call waiting 7.6 Call hold 7.7 Completion
of calls to busy subscribers 7.8 Explicit call transfer 7.9 Multi party
service 7.10 Advice of charge 7.11 Barring of outgoing calls 7.12
Barring of outgoing international calls 7.13 Barring of outgoing
international calls except those directed to the home PLMN country 7.14
Barring of incoming calls 7.15 Barring of incoming calls when roaming
outside the home PLMN country 7.16 Call Deflection 8 Interactions with
other network features 8.1 Support of Optimal Routeing 8.2 Multicall 9
Interworking considerations Annex A (informative): Deviations of the
3GPP UUS supplementary service from the ISDN service Annex B: Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The User-to-User Signalling (UUS) supplementary service allows a mobile
subscriber to send/receive a limited amount of information to/from
another PLMN or ISDN subscriber over the signalling channel in
association with a call to the other subscriber.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services.

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile
Station (MS).

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall stage 1\".

3 Definitions and Abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of this TS, the following definitions apply:

**User-to-User Information (UUI):** The information transferred by using
the UUS supplementary service.

**UUS service:** The UUS services (Service 1, 2 and 3) are components of
the UUS supplementary service. If the UUS supplementary service is
provided to a subscriber, she can handle the UUS services independently
within a call.

**Served subscriber:** The subscriber who has a provision of the UUS
supplementary service and who activates the UUS supplementary service.
For service 1 and 2 the served subscriber is always the calling
subscriber, for service 3 either the calling or the called subscriber
can be the served subscriber.

**Remote party:** For service 1 and 2 the remote party is the called
party of a call to which the UUS supplementary service is activated by
the served subscriber. For service 3 the remote party can be either the
called or the calling party of an established call to whom the use of
the UUS supplementary service is requested by the served subscriber.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of this TS the following abbreviations apply.

**UUS** User-to-User Signalling

**UUI** User-to-User Information

Further GSM related abbreviations are listed in TS 21.905 \[1\].

4 Description
=============

4.1 Description
---------------

The UUS supplementary service allows the served subscriber to
send/receive a limited amount of subscriber generated information
to/from another user in association with a call to the user. This
information shall be passed transparently (i.e. without modification of
contents) through the network. Normally, the network shall not interpret
or act upon this information.

The served subscriber can send and receive UUI in different phases of
the call depending on the service(s) to which the subscriber subscribes.
These services are:

Service 1: UUI can be sent and received during the origination and
termination of a call, with UUI embedded within call control messages.
The service 1 can be activated implicit by inserting UUI when set-up a
call or explicit with an appropriate procedure.

Service 2: UUI can be sent and received after the served subscriber has
received an indication that the remote party is being informed of the
call and prior to the establishment of the connection. UUI sent by the
served subscriber prior to receiving the acceptance of the call by the
remote party, may as a network option be delivered to the remote party
after the call has been established. The service 2 shall be activated
explicitly.

Service 3: User-to-user-information can be sent and received only while
the connection is established. The service 3 shall be activated
explicitly.

Service 1, service 2 and service 3 shall allow the transmission of UUI
with the maximum length of 128 octets per message.

4.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
-----------------------------------------------

The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in TS 22.004
\[2\].

5 Normal procedures with successful outcome
===========================================

5.1 Provision
-------------

The UUS supplementary service shall be provided to the served subscriber
after pre-arrangement with the service provider. The remote party needs
no subscription of the UUS supplementary service.

NOTE: The remote party is able to send UUI without provision of the UUS
supplementary service when the service is activated against her by the
served subscriber.

As a service provider option, one or any combination of the following
shall be provided:

\- service 1 (implicitly requested andexplicitly requested);

\- service 2;

\- service 3.

5.2 Withdrawal
--------------

The UUS supplementary service and several UUS services shall be
withdrawn by the service provider upon the subscriber\'s request or for
service providers reasons.

The supplementary service UUS shall be withdrawn if all UUS services
provided to the served subscriber are withdrawn.

5.3 Registration and Erasure
----------------------------

not applicable.

5.4 Activation and Deactivation
-------------------------------

The UUS supplementary service shall be activated by the service provider
as a result of provision and deactivated as a result of withdrawal.

5.5 Invocation
--------------

The UUS supplementary service is invoked if at least one UUS service is
activated by the served subscriber.

5.6 Interrogation
-----------------

not applicable.

5.7 Handling of UUS services
----------------------------

### 5.7.1 Activation

UUS service is activated when:

\- activation is implicitly requested (for service 1); or

\- activation is explicitly requested (for service 1, service 2 and
service 3) and is accepted by the remote party.

Depending on the served subscriber subscription to the UUS supplementary
service and the provision of the UUS services by the service provider,
service 1 implicit, service 1 explicit, service 2 and service 3 can be
activated individually or in combination. Service 1 implicit and service
1 explicit cannot be simultaneously active.

Once an UUS service is activated the network shall accept UUI from
either subscriber in the call, according to the service that has been
activated.

The network shall confirm the explicit activation of a UUS service
(service 1, 2 and 3) to the served subscriber. This confirmation shall
be preceded by an end-to-end check by the network for service
availability.

The network shall interrogate the remote party and check for the
availability of the UUS service on the remote party\'s side. The mobile
station shall confirm the requested services if it is able to handle the
UUS service. The remote party shall not have the possibility to confirm
or reject the request for the UUS service on a per call basis. No
response from the remote party shall be taken by the network as a
rejection of the request for the UUS service.

NOTE: Nevertheless the remote party may restrict the use of a UUS
service by pre-programming of the mobile station to reject incoming UUS
activation requests.

The network shall explicitly indicate to the calling mobile subscriber
whether or not the requested service has been successfully activated.

#### 5.7.1.1 Service 1

UUS service 1 shall be activated by the calling mobile subscriber when
originating a call if UUI transfer is desired in either direction.

Service 1 is automatically deactivated when the call is terminated.

Service 1 can be activated by means of an implicit activation request or
an explicit activation request.

Implicit activation:

Service 1 is implicitly activated when UUI is included when originating
a call.

When service 1 is implicitly activated, service 1 is active for the
call, i.e. the remote party is not required to send a response to the
implicit activation request. However, the remote party can include UUI
in the call response.

**Explicit activation:**

The UUS service 1 shall be activated explicitly by using of the
procedure defined in TS 22.030 \[3\].

The served mobile subscriber shall be given an explicit response
(acceptance or rejection) to an explicit activation request. An explicit
activation request can include UUI.

When service 1 is explicitly requested, the remote party can include UUI
when accepting the activation request for the UUS supplementary service.

#### 5.7.1.2 Service 2

The UUS service 2 shall be activated by using of the procedure defined
in TS 22.030 \[3\].

Service 2 shall be activated by the served subscriber when originating a
call, if UUI transfer is desired in either direction.

Service 2 shall be explicitly requested. The served mobile subscriber
shall be given an explicit response (acceptance or rejection) to an
explicit activation request.

Service 2 is automatically deactivated when the called subscriber is no
longer being informed of the call, i.e. if the call is established or
released.

#### 5.7.1.3 Service 3

The served subscriber can explicit request the activation of service 3
when a call is originated or after the connection has been established
by using the procedure defined in TS 22.030 \[3\]. The request for the
UUS service 3 shall be accepted from the remote party in order to
activate the UUS supplementary service. The served user shall be given
an explicit response (acceptance or rejection) to the explicit
activation request.

Service 3 is automatically deactivated when the call is no longer
established.

#### 5.7.1.4 \"UUS required\" request

When a call is originated, the calling subscriber can specify whether
the requested UUS service(s) is (are) required for the call, i.e. if the
call should be completed or not if UUI cannot be passed. If the
\"UUI-required\" indication is given by the subscriber, the call shall
not be completed if UUI cannot be passed to the called subscriber. If
the \"UUI-not-required\" indication is given by the subscriber, the call
will be completed even if UUI cannot be passed. If service 1 is
implicitly requested or if service 3 is requested during the call, it
cannot be requested as \"UUI-required\".

5.7.2 Invocation and operation
------------------------------

If activated by the served subscriber a UUS service shall be invoked
when UUI is sent by either subscriber to the network.

When a subscriber sends UUI the network shall not confirm its delivery
to the subscriber.

For service 2 and 3, when sending a UUI message, the subscriber can
indicate that the subscriber will send further UUI associated with this
UUI message. This indication shall be given to the receiving subscriber.

When sending a UUI message, the subscriber may indicate the use of
particular user protocol associated with the UUI message. This
indication shall be given to the receiving subscriber. The
identification of, and the use of, user protocols is outside of this
standard.

#### 5.7.2.1 Service 1

A PLMN subscriber can transfer UUI when originating a call. When service
1 has been activated, either subscriber can include UUI when accepting,
rejecting, or terminating a call.

Note: It is possible for a calling subscriber to invoke the UUS service
1 with a call set-up and terminate the call before the connection is
established.

#### 5.7.2.2 Service 2

Any time between activation of service 2 and connection is established,
either subscriber can transfer up to 2 UUI messages in each direction to
the other subscriber involved in the call.

#### 5.7.2.3 Service 3

After service 3 has been activated, either subscriber can transfer UUI
to the other subscriber on the call after the connection has been
established.

Note: The amount of UUI messages that can be transferred with service 3
shall be defined.

#### 5.7.2.4 Charging requirements

The served subscriber shall be charged according to the number of UUI
messages transferred in either direction. When charging for UUI the
destination (e.g. international calls, diverted calls) of the related
call shall not be considered.

It shall be possible to charge for the invocation of the UUS
supplementary service even if there are no other call charges.

6 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
================================================

6.1 Provision and Withdrawal
----------------------------

No exceptional procedures.

6.2 Registration and Erasure
----------------------------

not applicable.

6.3 Handling of UUS services
----------------------------

### 6.3.1 Activation

If the network cannot accept an implicit request for the activation of
UUS service 1, no notification shall be given to the subscriber.

In all other cases, if the network cannot accept a request for the
activation of a UUS service, the network shall reject the activation. In
addition, the network shall indicate which of service 1, service 2
and/or service 3 have been rejected. For the rejection of the activation
request the following reasons may be possible:

\- service not subscribed to;

\- necessary signalling connectivity does not exist between sending and
receiving subscribers;

\- conflicting situation with other supplementary service (e.g. CUG,
incoming call barring);

\- service is already active;

\- network congestion.

6.3.2 Invocation
----------------

The subscriber may not be able to interpret incoming UUI. In such
situations, the user can discard this information without disrupting
normal call handling. No specific signalling is provided by the network
to accommodate this situation.

Under circumstances of network congestion or failure, the network may
discard services 2 and 3 UUI.

7 Interactions with other supplementary services
================================================

7.1 Call forwarding unconditional
---------------------------------

No impact

NOTE: UUI or an activation request for a UUS service will be forwarded
with the call even in the case the forwarding subscriber has no
subscription of the relevant UUS service.

7.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
---------------------------------------------

If call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is invoked as a result of a
network determined user busy condition (NDUB) of the called subscriber,
any UUI and UUS request accompanies the call set-up request shall be
forwarded with the call

If call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is invoked as a result of
an user determined user busy condition (UDUB) the following cases shall
be distinguished:

\- If the UDUB condition is met before alerting any UUI and UUS request
accompanies the call set-up request shall be forwarded with the call.

\- If the UDUB condition is met after alerting the interactions as
defined for call forwarding on no reply shall apply.

UUI included in a UDUB request by the forwarding subscriber shall be
ignored by the network.

NOTE: UUI or an activation request for a UUS service will be forwarded
with the call even in the case the forwarding subscriber has no
subscription of the relevant UUS service.

7.3 Call forwarding on no reply
-------------------------------

**Service 1:**

If UUS service 1 is implicitly requested to the forwarding subscriber
the UUI shall be transferred to the forwarded-to party after the
invocation of CFNRy.

If UUS service 1 is explicitly requested with the option \"UUS required"
to a called subscriber who has CFNRy active and operative and the
no-reply condition timer expires, the call shall be released.

If UUS service 1 is explicitly requested with the option \"UUS not
required" to a called subscriber who has CFNRy active and operative,
CFNRy shall be invoked. If the called subscriber has confirmed the UUS
service 1 request prior to the invocation of CFNRy, the UUI and the UUS
request shall be transferred to the forwarded-to party. Otherwise the
UUI and the UUS request shall not be forwarded with the call.

**Service 2:**

If UUS service 2 is requested with the option \"UUS not required" to a
called subscriber who has CFNRy active and operative, CFNRy shall be
invoked but no UUS activation request will be given to the forwarded-to
subscriber.

If UUS service 2 is requested with the option \"UUS required" to a
called subscriber who has CFNRy active and operative, CFNRy shall not be
invoked.

**Service 3:**

Any activation request for UUS service 3 that accompanies the call
set-up request shall be forwarded with the call.

NOTE: UUI or an activation request for a UUS service will be forwarded
with the call even in the case the forwarding subscriber has no
subscription of the relevant UUS service.

7.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
------------------------------------------------------

No impact

NOTE: UUI or an activation request for a UUS service will be forwarded
with the call even in the case the forwarding subscriber has no
subscription of the relevant UUS service.

7.5 Call waiting
----------------

UUI for the operation of UUS service 1 included in the call request
shall be delivered with the call waiting indication to the called
subscriber.

There are no interactions with service 2 and service 3.

7.6 Call hold
-------------

A subscriber who has invoked the Call Hold supplementary service may
send or receive UUI to/from both the active and the held party. If the
served subscriber has an active and a held call the mobile station shall
indicate which party has sent a received UUI message.

7.7 Completion of calls to busy subscribers
-------------------------------------------

Requests for the activation of a UUS service contained in the original
call request shall be stored with the request for the invocation of the
CCBS supplementary service.

The network shall also store any UUI containing in the original call
request and use this stored UUI in the CCBS call.

7.8 Explicit call transfer
--------------------------

When calls are transferred as a result of invocation of the explicit
call transfer supplementary service, UUS services activated on either of
the calls prior to the invocation of the explicit call transfer
supplementary service shall be automatically deactivated by the network.

No specific notification shall be sent to the involved subscribers when
the UUS services are no longer activated.

The subscribers involved in the transferred call may request the
activation of service 3 again, if required.

7.9 Multi party service
-----------------------

During a MPTY the MPTY-Manager can send and receive UUI to/from each
remote party separately. The mobile station of the multi party manager
shall indicate from which remote party a received UUI message was sent.

UUI shall not be transferred between remote parties.

7.10 Advice of charge
---------------------

No impact.

NOTE: The Advice of Charge services may not provide any information
concerning charges for the use of the UUS supplementary service.

7.11 Barring of outgoing calls
------------------------------

no impact

7.12 Barring of outgoing international calls
--------------------------------------------

no impact

7.13 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the home PLMN country
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

no impact

7.14 Barring of incoming calls
------------------------------

no impact.

7.15 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

no impact.

7.16 Call Deflection
--------------------

If Call Deflection is invoked before alerting the same interactions as
for Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy shall apply.

If Call Deflection is invoked after alerting the same interactions as
for Call forwarding on no reply shall apply.

8 Interactions with other network features
==========================================

8.1 Support of Optimal Routeing
-------------------------------

The invocation of Optimal Routeing in case of late call forwarding shall
have no impact on the interactions of UUS with the call forwarding
supplementary services as defined in section 7.

8.2 Multicall
-------------

See TS 22.135 \[4\].

9 Interworking considerations
=============================

The UUS supplementary service can be delivered only when both
subscribers\' networks provide a means of conveying the UUI.

Some networks may support the transmission of UUI with a maximum length
of only 32 octets per message for service 1. In the interworking case
only the first 32 octets of UUI with more than 32 octets per message
shall be transferred. No notification about the limitation of the UUI
shall be given to any subscriber.

######## Annex A (informative): Deviations of the 3GPP UUS supplementary service from the ISDN service

The ISDN service UUS allows as a network option the transfer of UUI with
a maximum length of 32 octets for service 1. This option shall not be
supported in PLMNs. However there is the possibility that networks using
the phase 1 or phase 2 standard can support the UUS service 1 implicitly
requested with 32 octets. These networks shall apply the rules defined
in the section 8, Interworking considerations.

In the 3GPP specification some charging requirement are defined. These
requirements shall allow network operators to charge their subscribers
for the use of and to prevent misuse of the UUS supplementary service.

Because of the different handling of busy states in ISDN the
interactions with call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy are
different.

The network option to allow forwarding of UUS requests and UUI only if
the forwarding subscriber has the subscription of the relevant UUS
service is not supported.

The general principle of CCBS to retain all information of the original
call set-up and reusing this information for the CCBS call shall also be
valid for the UUS supplementary service. Therefore the UUI contained in
the original call set-up shall be stored in network and reused in the
CCBS call.

######### Annex B: Change history

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Change history</strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>TSG SA#</strong></td>
<td><strong>SA Doc.</strong></td>
<td><strong>SA1 Doc</strong></td>
<td><strong>Spec</strong></td>
<td><strong>CR</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rev</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rel</strong></td>
<td><strong>Cat</strong></td>
<td><strong>Subject/Comment</strong></td>
<td><strong>Old</strong></td>
<td><strong>New</strong></td>
<td><strong>WI</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Jun 1999</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>GSM </p>
<p>02.87</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP SA1</td>
<td>7.1.0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SA#04</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>22.087</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP SA1</td>
<td></td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-05</td>
<td>SP-99479</td>
<td>S1-99634</td>
<td>22.087</td>
<td>001</td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td>D</td>
<td>Editorial changes for alignment</td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td>3.0.1</td>
<td>Editorial changes</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-05</td>
<td>SP-99450</td>
<td>S1-99788</td>
<td>22.087</td>
<td>002</td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>Multicall (This CR was wrongly marked as 22.086 and should be to 22.087)</td>
<td>3.0.1</td>
<td>3.1.0</td>
<td>Multicall</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-11</td>
<td>SP-010065</td>
<td>S1-010258</td>
<td>22.087</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-4</td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP Release 4</td>
<td>3.1.0</td>
<td>4.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-16</td>
<td>SP-020267</td>
<td>S1-021043</td>
<td>22.087</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5</td>
<td>4.0.0</td>
<td>5.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-26</td>
<td>SP-040744</td>
<td>S1-040997</td>
<td>22.087</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-6</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-5 to Rel-6</td>
<td>5.0.0</td>
<td>6.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-36</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>22.087</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-7</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-6 to Rel-7</td>
<td>6.0.0</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-42</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-8</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-7 to Rel-8</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td>8.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-46</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-9 by MCC</td>
<td>8.0.0</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2011-03</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
<td>10.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2012-09</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-11 by MCC</td>
<td>10.0.0</td>
<td>11.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2014-10</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)</td>
<td>11.0.0</td>
<td>12.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2015-12</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-13 by MCC</td>
<td>12.0.0</td>
<td>13.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2017-03</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-14 by MCC</td>
<td>13.0.0</td>
<td>14.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2018-06</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-15 by MCC</td>
<td>14.0.0</td>
<td>15.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SA#88e</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-16 by MCC</td>
<td>15.0.0</td>
<td>16.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
