![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.3159722222222223in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#call-waiting-cw)

[6](#definition)

[7](#description)

[7](#description-1)

[7](#applicability-to-telecommunication-services)

[7](#terminology)

[7](#normal-procedures-with-successful-outcome)

[7](#provision)

[7](#withdrawal)

[7](#activation)

[8](#deactivation)

[8](#invocation)

[8](#normal-operation-with-successful-outcome)

[8](#incoming-call-from-c)

[8](#terminating-call-by-a-or-b)

[8](#interrogation)

[8](#exceptional-procedures-or-unsuccessful-outcome)

[8](#incoming-call-from-subscriber-c-ignored-by-subscriber-b)

[9](#incoming-call-from-subscriber-c-is-indicated-as-udub-by-subscriber-b-or-terminal-b)

[9](#release-by-subscriber-c-within-the-specified-period)

[9](#incoming-call-from-subscriber-c-is-rejected-by-subscriber-b)

[9](#alternate-procedures)

[9](#interactions-with-other-supplementary-services)

[9](#call-forwarding-unconditional)

[9](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-busy)

[9](#call-forwarding-on-no-reply)

[9](#call-hold)

[9](#calling-line-identification-presentation)

[10](#multiparty)

[10](#barring-of-all-incoming-calls)

[10](#barring-of-incoming-calls-when-roaming-outside-the-home-plmn-country)

[10](#interactions-with-other-services)

[10](#multicall)

[10](#interworking-considerations)

[10](#call-hold-1)

[10](#definition-1)

[10](#description-2)

[10](#description-3)

[11](#applicability-to-telecommunication-services-1)

[11](#normal-procedures-with-successful-outcome-1)

[11](#provision-1)

[11](#withdrawal-1)

[11](#activation-1)

[11](#deactivation-1)

[11](#invocation-1)

[11](#normal-operation-with-successful-outcome-1)

[13](#exceptional-procedures-or-unsuccessful-outcome-1)

[13](#exceptional-operation-or-unsuccessful-outcome)

[13](#invocation-2)

[13](#alternate-procedures-1)

[13](#interactions-with-other-supplementary-services-1)

[13](#call-waiting)

[13](#multiparty-1)

[13](#interactions-with-other-services-1)

[13](#multicall-1)

[13](#interworking-considerations-1)

[14](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 0 Scope 0.1 References
0.2 Abbreviations 1 Call Waiting (CW) 1.1 Definition 1.2 Description
1.2.1 Description 1.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
1.2.3 Terminology 1.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome 1.3.1
Provision 1.3.2 Withdrawal 1.3.5 Activation 1.3.6 Deactivation 1.3.7
Invocation 1.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome 1.3.8.1
Incoming call from C 1.3.8.2 Terminating call by A or B 1.3.11
Interrogation 1.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome 1.4.1
Incoming call from subscriber C ignored by subscriber B 1.4.2 Incoming
call from subscriber C is indicated as UDUB by subscriber B (or terminal
B) 1.4.3 Release by subscriber C within the specified period 1.4.4
Incoming call from subscriber C is rejected by subscriber B 1.5
Alternate procedures 1.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
1.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional 1.6.82.2 Call forwarding on
mobile subscriber busy 1.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply 1.6.83.2
Call hold 1.6.81.1 Calling line identification presentation 1.6.84.2
MultiParty 1.6.88.6 Barring of all incoming calls 1.6.88.7 Barring of
incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country 1.7
Interactions with other services 1.7.1 Multicall 1.8 Interworking
considerations 2 Call hold 2.1 Definition 2.2 Description 2.2.1
Description 2.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services 2.3 Normal
procedures with successful outcome 2.3.1 Provision 2.3.2 Withdrawal
2.3.5 Activation 2.3.6 Deactivation 2.3.7 Invocation 2.3.8 Normal
operation with successful outcome 2.4 Exceptional procedures or
unsuccessful outcome 2.4.1 Exceptional operation or unsuccessful outcome
2.4.6 Invocation 2.5 Alternate procedures 2.6 Interactions with other
Supplementary Services 2.6.83.1 Call waiting 2.6.84.2 MultiParty 2.7
Interactions with other services 2.7.1 Multicall 2.8 Interworking
considerations Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

0 Scope
=======

The present document describes the Supplementary Services belonging to
the group Call Completion Supplementary Services.

The general aspects, including definitions and recommended provision, of
the description of Supplementary Services are given in specification TS
22.004 \[2\].

The group of Call Completion Supplementary Services is divided into the
following two Supplementary Services:

\- Call waiting (clause 1);

\- Call hold (clause 2).

0.1 References
--------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile
Station (MS)\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification Supplementary Services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system;
MultiParty (MPTY) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage 1\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall Stage 1\".

0.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in TR 21.905
\[1\].

1 Call Waiting (CW)
===================

1.1 Definition
--------------

The Call Waiting Service permits a mobile subscriber to be notified of
an incoming call (as per basic call procedures) whilst the traffic
channel is not available for the incoming call and the mobile subscriber
is engaged in an active or held call. Subsequently, the subscriber can
either accept, reject, or ignore the incoming call.

1.2 Description
---------------

### 1.2.1 Description

This service operates when the traffic channel at the controlling
subscriber B is not available and B is engaged in an active or held
call.

When a third party (calling subscriber C) attempts to connect to that
termination, the controlling subscriber B is given an appropriate
indication of the waiting call. A notification that the call is waiting
will be sent back towards the calling subscriber C.

The maximum number of waiting calls at one time per mobile access is
one. This means that no further calls are offered to the subscriber
while a call is waiting.

NOTE: As a network option this maximum number of waiting calls may be
greater than one. This is considered as a possible future enhancement.

### 1.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services

The applicability of this Supplementary Service to the ongoing call is
defined in TS 22.004 \[2\]. The incoming, waiting, call may be of any
kind.

### 1.2.3 Terminology

**(Controlling) subscriber B**

This is the subscriber who is provided by the network with the Call
Waiting Service and who reacts to the Call Waiting.

**Subscriber C**

This is the subscriber who has originated a call to B which causes the
Call Waiting Service to be invoked.

**Subscriber A**

This represents a subscriber who is engaged in a call with B, being
either the calling or the called party.

**T2; No answer time out**

The duration of this time out is the time the network will wait for a
response from subscriber B, to the offered call from subscriber C. The
value of the timer is between 0.5 and 2 minutes at the service providers
discretion.

1.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
---------------------------------------------

### 1.3.1 Provision

This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all Basic Services (BS)
subscribed to and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned to any
subset of these BS.

### 1.3.2 Withdrawal

Withdrawal will be at the request of the subscriber or for
administrative reasons.

### 1.3.5 Activation

This Supplementary Service will be activated either collectively for all
applicable Basic Services or on a Basic Service group basis by the
subscriber using a control procedure, as specified in TS 22.030 \[3\],
or by the service provider. The controlling subscriber shall be informed
by the network of the success or otherwise of her action.

### 1.3.6 Deactivation

The service will be deactivated either collectively for all applicable
Basic Services or on a Basic Service group basis by the subscriber using
a control procedure, as specified in TS 22.030 \[3\], or by the service
provider. The controlling subscriber shall be informed by the network of
the success or otherwise of her action.

### 1.3.7 Invocation

This service is invoked by the network on arrival of an incoming call if
the service is active and the controlling subscriber B\'s traffic
channel is not available, B is engaged in an active or held call and
there is no other call currently waiting.

### 1.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome

#### 1.3.8.1 Incoming call from C

When an incoming call from subscriber C arrives, the served mobile
subscriber is connected to - at least - one call (active or held) and a
NDUB (Network Determined User Busy) condition does not exist, then the
CW service shall be invoked and the call shall be offered to subscriber
B with an appropriate indication, e.g. with a \"Call Waiting Tone\".

If a response to the offered call is received from the mobile
termination at B, then the subscriber C shall be given an indication
(e.g. ringing tone) that the called subscriber is being informed of the
incoming call and, if possible, that call waiting is in operation.

#### 1.3.8.2 Terminating call by A or B

If either subscriber A or subscriber B requests that the call is
terminated, then this call shall be terminated as for basic call (see TS
22.030 \[3\] for more information). Subscriber B shall then be given the
normal notification that there is a new call to her, as for a normal
terminating call. The network shall continue to indicate; e.g. ringing
tone towards subscriber C as for a normal call. B can then accept the
call from C before the expiry of T2.

Subscriber B can also free resources by using the Call Hold
Supplementary Service. Subscriber B shall then be able to accept the
waiting call from subscriber C before the expiry of T2.

Alternatively, subscriber B may specifically request release or hold of
the connection to A and accept the waiting call as one action (see TS
22.030 \[3\]). In this case, the network connects subscriber B to
subscriber C with no further notifications to either subscriber. This
must be done before the expiry of T2.

### 1.3.11 Interrogation

**Status check**

The controlling subscriber may interrogate the network by the use of a
control procedure, as specified in TS 22.030 \[3\]. The network shall
respond with an appropriate indication telling the subscriber whether
the service is supported in this network and, if so, provide a list of
all Basic Service groups to which the Call waiting Supplementary Service
is active.

1.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
--------------------------------------------------

### 1.4.1 Incoming call from subscriber C ignored by subscriber B

If no response is received by the network from controlling subscriber B
before the expiry of T2, then the network shall inform the controlling
subscriber B that the call is no longer waiting. Subscriber C shall then
be given a no reply indication, unless e.g. Call Forwarding applies. The
call waiting service is then made available for a subsequent incoming
call.

### 1.4.2 Incoming call from subscriber C is indicated as UDUB by subscriber B (or terminal B)

If the waiting call is indicated as UDUB by B before the expiry of T2
the subscriber C shall be given a busy indication, unless e.g. Call
Forwarding applies. The call waiting service is then made available for
a subsequent incoming call.

### 1.4.3 Release by subscriber C within the specified period

If calling subscriber C terminates the call attempt to subscriber B
before the expiry of T2, the call attempt from C shall be terminated, as
for basic call, and subscriber B shall be notified.

### 1.4.4 Incoming call from subscriber C is rejected by subscriber B

If the waiting call is explicitly rejected by B before the expiry of T2,
the subscriber C shall be given a reject indication. The call waiting
service is then made available for a subsequent incoming call.

1.5 Alternate procedures
------------------------

None identified.

1.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
--------------------------------------------------

#### 1.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional

If call forwarding unconditional has been activated, it takes precedence
over call waiting. Call forwarding unconditional can be activated while
a call is waiting without changing the state of the waiting call.

#### 1.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

No impact, i.e. neither Supplementary Service shall affect the operation
of the other Supplementary Service.

The following text clarifies the situation: If user B is NDUB (Network
Determined User Busy), Call Forwarding shall take place, and the call is
not offered to B. If B is not NDUB, the call shall be offered to B, and
if the UDUB (User DUB) condition occurs, then the Call Forwarding shall
take place.

#### 1.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply

If the CFNRy is active and operative for the called subscriber then a
waiting call shall still be offered as described in subclause 1.3.8.1
(call waiting indication). If no response is received to this call
before the expiry of the No Reply Condition timer, then the call
forwarding on no reply service becomes invoked and the call is forwarded
as per that call forwarding on no reply service description.

#### 1.6.83.2 Call hold

The served user may use the Call Hold service to answer subsequently a
waiting call from C.

If the served mobile subscriber has an active call and a call one hold
the network can still offer an incoming call with the waiting indication
i.e. the NDUB condition is not used the normal way (n=2 not 1).

NOTE: Although the call is offered to the subscriber, she cannot accept
the call as long as she has one active call and one call on hold.

If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold and no active call,
an incoming call is offered as a waiting call.

#### 1.6.81.1 Calling line identification presentation

See TS 22.081 \[4\]

#### 1.6.84.2 MultiParty

See TS 22.084 \[5\] .

#### 1.6.88.6 Barring of all incoming calls

Invocation of Barring of Incoming Calls takes precedence over invocation
of Call Waiting.

Call waiting cannot be activated if barring of incoming calls is
activated. The mobile subscriber requesting for call waiting shall be
informed of this Supplementary Service incompatibility. The activation
of barring of incoming calls does not affect any currently waiting
calls.

#### 1.6.88.7 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country

When active and operative, same as interaction with Barring of All
Incoming Calls.

1.7 Interactions with other services
------------------------------------

### 1.7.1 Multicall

See TS 22.135 \[6\].

1.8 Interworking considerations
-------------------------------

Calls originating from outside the ISDN/PLMN can undergo call waiting at
B.

A special in-band indication may be provided to the calling subscriber
instead of the normal indication.

2 Call hold
===========

2.1 Definition
--------------

The call hold service allows a served mobile subscriber, who is
provisioned with this Supplementary Service, to interrupt communication
on an existing active call and then subsequently, if desired,
re-establish communication. The traffic channel remains assigned to the
mobile subscriber after the communication is interrupted to allow the
origination or possible termination of other calls.

2.2 Description
---------------

### 2.2.1 Description

When the call hold service is invoked, communication is interrupted on
the traffic channel and the traffic channel is released from the
existing call. The traffic channel is reserved for the served mobile
subscriber invoking the call hold service. The served mobile subscriber
can only have one call on hold at a time.

One traffic channel should be reserved for the served mobile subscriber
as long as the subscriber has one call on hold and is currently not
connected to any other call, i.e. the network should not reserve more
than one traffic channel for a mobile station.

If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold and is not connected
to an active call, she can:

1\) Retrieve the held call.

2\) Set up another call.

3\) Disconnect the held call.

If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold and is not connected
to an active call she can not receive a call, except when using the Call
Waiting Supplementary Service. For additional information, see subclause
2.6.83.1 (Interaction with Call Waiting Supplementary Service).

If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and has
another call on hold, she can:

1\) Alternate from one call to the other.

2\) Disconnect the active call.

3\) Disconnect the held call.

4\) Disconnect both calls.

If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and has
another call on hold, she can not receive a call. For additional
information, see subclause 2.6.83.1 (Interaction with Call Waiting
Supplementary Service).

### 2.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services

The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in TS 22.004
\[2\].

NOTE: If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold she may set up
another call using a different telecommunications service.

2.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
---------------------------------------------

### 2.3.1 Provision

This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all basic services
subscribed to and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned to any
subset of these BS.

### 2.3.2 Withdrawal

The service will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.

### 2.3.5 Activation

The Supplementary Service will be activated by the service provider as a
result of provision.

### 2.3.6 Deactivation

The Supplementary Service will be deactivated by the service provider as
a result of withdrawal.

### 2.3.7 Invocation

Call hold will be invoked by the served mobile subscriber by use of a
control procedure as described in TS 22.030 \[3\].

### 2.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome

**Hold request**

The served mobile subscriber indicates to the network that communication
on the interface is to be interrupted. A call may be placed on hold:

\- on the served calling subscriber\'s interface by her at any time
after the call has been answered and before call clearing has begun.

\- on the served called subscriber\'s interface by her at any time after
the call has been answered and before call clearing has begun.

The communication on the connection is then interrupted An
acknowledgement shall be given to the served mobile subscriber, and the
traffic channel is now available for other uses. A notification shall be
sent towards the held party indicating that the call has been placed on
hold.

**Disconnect**

If at any time a call is in the held state, either party may disconnect
from that call.

**Unidirectionality**

Assume that subscriber A and B are connected to a call and both have
subscribed to the call hold services. The call hold service is
unidirectional, so it is possible for:

1\) only party A to have party B on hold;

For party A the call is on hold, for the held party B the call is
active.

2\) only party B to have party A on hold;

For party B the call is on hold, for the held party A the call is
active; or

3\) each party to have the other on hold.

For party A and party B the call is on hold.

**Handling of call hold service within a call**

The served mobile subscriber may control the call hold service by use of
the control procedures as described in TS 22.030 \[3\].

If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold and is not connected
to an active call, she can:

1\) Retrieve the held call.

A notification shall be send towards the previously held party that the
call has been retrieved.

2\) Set up another call.

Results in the served mobile subscriber being engaged in that new call
and still holding the other call.

3\) Disconnect the held call (as for basic call).

If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and has
another call on hold, she can:

1\) Alternate from one call to the other.

Results in the previously active call being held and the previously held
call becoming active. Privacy is provided between the two calls. A
notification shall be sent towards the previously held party that the
call has been retrieved and another notification shall be sent towards
the party being put on hold.

2\) Disconnect the active call.

Results in the traffic channel being available for the served mobile
subscriber and the other call being still on hold. The served mobile
subscriber shall be notified that she has a call on hold. The
disconnected party shall be notified as for a basic call.

NOTE: The notification about the held call towards the served mobile
subscriber is given by the MS, not by the network.

3\) Disconnect the held call.

The disconnected party shall be notified as for a basic call.

4\) Disconnect both calls (as for basic call).

If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and has
another call on hold, and the active call is disconnected by the other
party; then the served mobile subscriber shall be notified that she has
a call on hold.

NOTE: The notification about the held call towards the served mobile
subscriber is given by the MS, not by the network.

2.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
--------------------------------------------------

### 2.4.1 Exceptional operation or unsuccessful outcome

If the network cannot retrieve a previously held call, the mobile
subscriber will be informed of the reason of the failure. (For example,
the call may be in the process of being cleared). The call state is not
affected.

If the network cannot alternate between two calls, the mobile subscriber
will be informed of the reason for the failure. The call states are not
affected.

### 2.4.6 Invocation

**Hold**

If a mobile subscriber tries to invoke the hold service while not
subscribed to the service or for some other reason, the service provider
cannot provide the hold service, an indication will be provided to the
mobile subscriber with the reason of failure. The call state is not
affected.

2.5 Alternate procedures
------------------------

None identified.

2.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
--------------------------------------------------

#### 2.6.83.1 Call waiting

See subclause 1.6.83.2.

#### 2.6.84.2 MultiParty

See TS 22.084 \[5\]

2.7 Interactions with other services
------------------------------------

### 2.7.1 Multicall

See TS 22.135 \[6\].

2.8 Interworking considerations
-------------------------------

The operation of this Supplementary Service is not affected by the
nature of the far end of the connection.

NOTE: In some networks the indication to the distant user about the held
or retrieve state of the call may not be supported.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Change history</strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>TSG SA#</strong></td>
<td><strong>SA Doc.</strong></td>
<td><strong>SA1 Doc</strong></td>
<td><strong>Spec</strong></td>
<td><strong>CR</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rev</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rel</strong></td>
<td><strong>Cat</strong></td>
<td><strong>Subject/Comment</strong></td>
<td><strong>Old</strong></td>
<td><strong>New</strong></td>
<td><strong>WI</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Jun 1999</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>GSM </p>
<p>02.83</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP SA1</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SA#04</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>22.083</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP SA1</td>
<td></td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-05</td>
<td>SP-99479</td>
<td>S1-99630</td>
<td>22.083</td>
<td>001</td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td>D</td>
<td>Editorial changes for alignment</td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td>3.0.1</td>
<td>Editorial changes</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-05</td>
<td>SP-99449</td>
<td>S1-99854</td>
<td>22.083</td>
<td>002</td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>Multicall</td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td>3.1.0</td>
<td>Multicall</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-11</td>
<td>SP-010065</td>
<td>S1-010258</td>
<td>22.083</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-4</td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP Release 4</td>
<td>3.1.0</td>
<td>4.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-15</td>
<td>SP-020045</td>
<td>S1-020457</td>
<td>22.083</td>
<td>003</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Rel-4</td>
<td>F</td>
<td>Editorial CR to correct terms and references</td>
<td>4.0.0</td>
<td>4.1.0</td>
<td>CORRECT</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-16</td>
<td>SP-020267</td>
<td>S1-021043</td>
<td>22.083</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5</td>
<td>4.1.0</td>
<td>5.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-26</td>
<td>SP-040744</td>
<td>S1-040997</td>
<td>22.083</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-6</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-5 to Rel-6</td>
<td>5.0.0</td>
<td>6.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-36</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>22.083</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-7</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-6 to Rel-7</td>
<td>6.0.0</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-42</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-8</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-7 to Rel-8</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td>8.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-46</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-9 by MCC</td>
<td>8.0.0</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2011-03</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
<td>10.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2012-09</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-11 by MCC</td>
<td>10.0.0</td>
<td>11.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2014-10</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)</td>
<td>11.0.0</td>
<td>12.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2015-12</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-13 by MCC</td>
<td>12.0.0</td>
<td>13.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2017-03</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-14 by MCC</td>
<td>13.0.0</td>
<td>14.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2018-06</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-15 by MCC</td>
<td>14.0.0</td>
<td>15.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SA#88e</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-16 by MCC</td>
<td>15.0.0</td>
<td>16.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
