![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.2965277777777777in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#description)

[7](#applicability-to-telecommunication-services)

[7](#functional-requirements)

[7](#handling-of-the-msp-service)

[7](#provision)

[7](#withdrawal)

[7](#activation)

[7](#deactivation)

[8](#invocation)

[8](#handling-of-the-profile)

[8](#provision-1)

[8](#withdrawal-1)

[8](#registration)

[8](#selection)

[8](#erasure)

[8](#interrogation)

[9](#normal-operation-with-successful-outcome)

[9](#mobile-originating-calls)

[9](#mobile-terminating-calls)

[9](#mobile-originating-call-independent-supplementary-service-activities)

[9](#call-related-supplementary-service-activities)

[9](#exceptional-procedures-or-unsuccessful-outcome)

[9](#roaming-into-networks-not-supporting-msp)

[9](#registration-or-selection-of-a-profile-that-is-already-registered)

[9](#registration-or-selection-of-a-non-provisioned-profile)

[10](#registration-or-selection-attempts-where-msp-is-not-provisioned)

[10](#interaction-with-supplementary-services)

[10](#line-identification-services)

[10](#call-hold-hold)

[10](#call-waiting-cw)

[10](#call-forwarding)

[10](#multi-party-service-mpty)

[10](#closed-user-group-cug)

[10](#advice-of-charge-aoc)

[11](#call-barring)

[11](#explicit-call-transfer-ect)

[11](#ccbs)

[11](#emlpp)

[11](#multicall)

[11](#interaction-with-other-services)

[11](#the-multi-numbering-scheme)

[11](#the-short-message-service)

[12](#interactions-with-camel)

[12](#interactions-with-or)

[12](#operator-determined-barring)

[12](#roaming-restrictions)

[12](#cross-phase-compatibility)

[13](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Description 4.1 Applicability to telecommunication services 5 Functional
requirements 5.1 Handling of the MSP Service 5.1.1 Provision 5.1.2
Withdrawal 5.1.3 Activation 5.1.4 Deactivation 5.1.5 Invocation 5.2
Handling of the Profile 5.2.1 Provision 5.2.2 Withdrawal 5.2.3
Registration 5.2.4 Selection 5.2.5 Erasure 5.2.6 Interrogation 5.3
Normal operation with successful outcome 5.3.1 Mobile Originating Calls
5.3.2 Mobile Terminating Calls 5.3.3 Mobile Originating Call Independent
Supplementary Service Activities 5.3.4 Call Related Supplementary
Service Activities 5.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
5.4.1 Roaming into networks not supporting MSP 5.4.2 Registration or
Selection of a profile that is already registered 5.4.3 Registration or
Selection of a non-provisioned profile 5.4.4 Registration or Selection
attempts where MSP is not provisioned 6 Interaction with supplementary
services 6.1 Line Identification Services 6.2 Call Hold (HOLD) 6.3 Call
Waiting (CW) 6.4 Call Forwarding 6.5 Multi Party Service (MPTY) 6.6
Closed User Group (CUG) 6.7 Advice of Charge (AoC) 6.8 Call Barring 6.9
Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) 6.10 CCBS 6.11 eMLPP 6.12 Multicall 7
Interaction with other services 7.1 The Multi-Numbering Scheme 7.2 The
Short Message Service 7.3 Interactions with CAMEL 7.4 Interactions with
OR 7.5 Operator Determined Barring 7.6 Roaming restrictions 8
Cross-Phase Compatibility Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document gives an overall view of how this service shall
operate both in the PLMN and within the Mobile Station (MS). This TS
defines functionality and is not intended to constrain implementation.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 22.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.030: \" Man-machine Interface (MMI) of the mobile
station (MS)\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message
Service (SMS) Point to Point (PP)\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) \".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of this TS the following definitions apply:

**Subscriber**: The user who is provisioned with the MSP service

**Profile:** A profile consists of a set of telecommunications services
for the subscriber. In the case of the single numbering scheme there is
a unique MSISDN associated with each profile. In the multi-numbering
scheme there is the ability to have a unique MSISDN associated with each
basic service in each profile.

**Service Provider (SP):** The organisation through which the subscriber
obtains PLMN telecommunication services. This may be the network
operator or possibly a separate body.

**Profile Identification (Profile ID):** The profile IDs allow
unambiguous identification of each profile. This will allow the
subscriber to select the preferred profile for outgoing calls and for
subscriber actions. For terminating calls the profile ID shall be part
of the notification of the profile.

**Registered Profile:** The registered profile is that registered by/for
the subscriber

**Selected Profile:** For mobile originated calls and short messages
this is the registered profile unless the subscriber explicitly selects
an alternative profile. For mobile terminating activities, this is the
profile associated with the MSISDN addressed.

**Mobile Terminating Activities:** These include mobile terminating
calls, short messages (SMS MT) and Call Independent Supplementary
Services (e.g. NI-USSD).

**Default Profile**: Profile to be used when roaming to non-supporting
network

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of this TS the following abbreviations apply, in
addition, abbreviations used in this TS are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905
\[1\].

MSP Multiple Subscriber Profile

4 Description
=============

Multiple Subscriber Profile is an optional service to enable mobile
subscribers to have several profiles associated with a single IMSI, with
each profile being a subscription option. Each profile may be used for
mobile originated and mobile terminated calls.

Up to four different profiles can be provisioned against a subscriber
using the MSP feature. This will allow the subscriber to separate her
telecommunication service needs into different identities (e.g. business
and home).

The charges accrued for services shall be associated with the
appropriate profile, allowing separate charging for each profile.

A supporting visited network shall indicate \[on the billing record\]
for charging purposes the profile used.

4.1 Applicability to telecommunication services
-----------------------------------------------

The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS
22.004 \[2\].

5 Functional requirements
=========================

5.1 Handling of the MSP Service
-------------------------------

This clause describes the normal procedures for the handling of the MSP
service.

### 5.1.1 Provision

The MSP service shall be provided after prior arrangement with the
service provider. If the MSP service is provisioned for the subscriber
at the first time the subscriber shall also be provisioned with at least
two profiles.

### 5.1.2 Withdrawal

Withdrawal of the MSP service shall be done by either the service
provider at the subscriber's request or for administrative reasons. The
MSP service shall be withdrawn when there is only one profile remaining.

### 5.1.3 Activation

The MSP service is activated by the service provider as a result of
provision.

### 5.1.4 Deactivation

The MSP service is deactivated by the service provider as a result of
withdrawal.

### 5.1.5 Invocation

The MSP service is invoked by mobile originated and mobile terminating
calls.

5.2 Handling of the Profile
---------------------------

This subclause describes the normal procedures for selecting the
registered profile for mobile originated calls, short messages and call
independent supplementary service related activities. For mobile
terminating activities the profile is selected automatically by
association with the MSISDN addressed.

### 5.2.1 Provision

The provision of profiles (up to a maximum of four) is provided by prior
arrangement with the service provider. The subscriber may select any
provisioned profile on a per call basis or register one of them. The
subscriber will nominate one of their provisioned profiles as the
default profile to be used when roaming to non-supporting networks. The
subscriber may subsequently nominate an alternative default (i.e.
roaming) profile, nevertheless the default profile can only be changed
by the service provider.

### 5.2.2 Withdrawal

The Service Provider shall be able to withdraw profiles. The registered
profile shall never be withdrawn, and consequently if the registered
profile needs to be withdrawn the service provider shall first register
the subscriber onto another profile.

### 5.2.3 Registration

Registration is the procedure by which information is written to the
network to allocate a particular profile to be used for all outgoing
calls and supplementary service related activities. Registration to a
profile shall take place either by the service provider or with an
appropriate control procedure by the subscriber as defined in 3GPP TS
22.030 \[3\]. At all times only one profile shall be registered. The
network shall indicate to the user whether an attempt to register a
profile has been successful or not.

### 5.2.4 Selection

The profile to be used for mobile originated calls is selected either
implicitly or explicitly:

\- Implicit selection occurs if the served subscriber does not indicate
a profile ID when initiating a call or short message. In this case the
selected profile is the registered profile.

\- Explicit selection occurs if the served subscriber does indicate a
profile ID when initiating a call or short message.

The control procedure used to select the profile is as defined in 3GPP
TS 22.030 \[3\].

For mobile terminating activities, the profile is selected according to
the MSISDN addressed.

### 5.2.5 Erasure

A previous registration can be erased in the following ways:

\- the subscriber can register to another profile which causes the
previous registration to be overridden;

\- the registered profile is erased as a result of withdrawal of the MSP
service.

### 5.2.6 Interrogation

The subscriber shall be able to interrogate which profile is the
registered profile and all other available profile IDs, with an
appropriate control procedure as defined in 3GPP TS 22.030 \[3\].

5.3 Normal operation with successful outcome
--------------------------------------------

### 5.3.1 Mobile Originating Calls

Mobile originating calls shall be handled according to the selected
profile. This shall be the registered profile unless an alternative is
explicitly selected by the subscriber. Profiles are registered and
selected according to control procedures in 3GPP TS 22.030 \[3\].

Any activity that is normally chargeable shall be identified against the
selected profile.

### 5.3.2 Mobile Terminating Calls

The MSISDN addressed shall be used to determine the profile to be used.
If there are any active supplementary services, which are applicable to
the telecommunication service within the profile, then those
supplementary services shall apply. For example, if the MS is busy in a
call, further incoming call attempts shall be rejected or busy, even if
they were on a different profile. This shall not prevent the normal
operation of Call Waiting or Call Forwarding if appropriate.

The serving network shall indicate the profile towards the mobile
station done by changing the alerting pattern.

Any activity that is normally chargeable shall be identified against the
profile used for the mobile terminating activity.

### 5.3.3 Mobile Originating Call Independent Supplementary Service Activities

The activity shall be handled according to the registered profile.

### 5.3.4 Call Related Supplementary Service Activities

The handling of call related supplementary service activities is
described in clause 7.

5.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
--------------------------------------------------

### 5.4.1 Roaming into networks not supporting MSP

The default profile shall be used for outgoing traffic when the
subscriber roams to a non-supporting network.

Incoming calls and short messages to all profiles will still be
received.

### 5.4.2 Registration or Selection of a profile that is already registered

If there is an attempt to register a profile that is already the
registered profile, the registration shall continue uninterrupted and
the user shall not be informed.

If there is an attempt to select a profile that is already the
registered profile, the selection shall continue uninterrupted and the
user shall not be informed.

### 5.4.3 Registration or Selection of a non-provisioned profile

If there is an attempt to register a profile that has not been
provisioned, the registration attempt shall fail and the user shall be
informed. The registered profile shall remain unchanged.

If there is an attempt to select a profile that has not been provisioned
the selection and associated call activity shall fail. The user shall be
informed. The registered profile shall remain unchanged.

### 5.4.4 Registration or Selection attempts where MSP is not provisioned

If there is an attempt by a subscriber who does not have MSP provisioned
to register a profile, the registration attempt shall fail and
subscriber shall be informed.

If there is an attempt by a subscriber who does not have MSP provisioned
to select a profile, the selection attempt shall fail and subscriber
shall be informed.

6 Interaction with supplementary services
=========================================

The profile used when a supplementary service is invoked will be subject
to the charging principles and invocation requirements relevant to that
supplementary service. The service provider may decide which profiles to
charge for the service provision.

6.1 Line Identification Services 
--------------------------------

The profile in use for the incoming or outgoing call shall be used for
the line identification services.

The Line Identification services will be provisioned on a per subscriber
basis. If provisioned, the Line Identification services shall apply over
all profiles.

6.2 Call Hold (HOLD)
--------------------

The HOLD service can only be invoked if the profile for that active call
has the HOLD service provisioned.

6.3 Call Waiting (CW)
---------------------

CW for an incoming call can only be invoked if the profile for the
ongoing call has the CW service provisioned and active although the
incoming call may be on any profile.

6.4 Call Forwarding
-------------------

Call Forwarding will be available to the subscriber per-profile. An
operator specific control procedure may be used by the subscriber to
control the call forwarding service.

The subscriber shall be able to forward calls to from one profile to
another profile.

6.5 Multi Party Service (MPTY)
------------------------------

The MPTY service can only be invoked or an MPTY call controlled or
extended if MPTY is provisioned for the served subscriber for each
profile(s) associated with the MPTY call leg(s).

6.6 Closed User Group (CUG)
---------------------------

An MO call shall be treated according to the rules of the CUG service if
CUG is provisioned for the selected profile. An MT call shall be treated
according to the rules of the CUG service if CUG is provisioned for the
profile defined by the called MSISDN.

6.7 Advice of Charge (AoC)
--------------------------

If subscribed to, AoCI or AoCC shall be applicable to the selected
profile. Each profile shall have a separate meter (ACM) and a separate
upper limit (ACMmax) when AoCC is subscribed. There shall be an overall
meter for all profiles, with its own upper limit for AoCC if subscribed.
For normal operation both the individual meter applicable to the
selected profile and the overall meter shall be incremented.

When roaming to a non-supporting network, only the overall meter shall
be incremented.

6.8 Call Barring
----------------

Call Barring will be available to the subscriber per-profile. An
operator specific control procedure may be used by the subscriber to
control the call barring service.

6.9 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
--------------------------------

ECT can only be invoked if the service is provisioned for each profile
which governs a call leg to be joined by the ECT service.

6.10 CCBS
---------

The CCBS service shall be provisioned per profile. The option not to be
a target of CCBS requests shall also apply per profile. When the
subscriber is informed of a CCBS recall, the profile in use when the
CCBS request was activated shall be used for the CCBS call. If the
subscriber activates a CCBS call request on a profile that is not the
default profile and subsequently moves to a network not supporting MSP
Phase 2, then if the CCBS recall matures, the corresponding CCBS request
shall be suspended until the subscriber next registers on a network
supporting MSP Phase 2.

The limit to the number of outstanding CCBS requests that can be
activated by the subscriber shall apply regardless of the number of
profiles.

The limit to the number of outstanding CCBS requests that can be
activated against the subscriber shall apply regardless of the number of
profiles.

6.11 eMLPP
----------

eMLPP shall be provisioned per subscriber.

6.12 Multicall
--------------

The multicall supplementary service shall be provisioned on a per
subscriber basis. If provisioned, Nbr\_SN, Nbr\_SB, and Nbr\_user shall
apply over all profiles. (See 3GPP TS 22.135 \[5\] "3.1 Definitions" for
detailed information)

7 Interaction with other services
=================================

7.1 The Multi-Numbering Scheme
------------------------------

Each profile may employ the single-numbering scheme or the
multi-numbering scheme. The multi-numbering scheme is described in 3GPP
TS 22.001 \[6\]. For each of the profile(s) defined above, it shall be
possible for the subscriber to be allocated different MSISDNs for
different basic services.

7.2 The Short Message Service
-----------------------------

The Short Message Service is described in 3GPP TS 23.040 \[4\]. It will
not be possible to indicate the profile used for the MT case. All MO
short messages will be sent from the default profile.

MO short messages can be sent from (and charged to) the registered
profile or an explicitly selected profile.

Whilst roaming in a network not supporting MSP Phase 2, all MO short
messages will be sent from and charged to the default profile.

7.3 Interactions with CAMEL
---------------------------

CAMEL based services can be provisioned either per subscriber or per
profile depending on the operator specific implementation in the CSE.

For call independent supplementary service procedures for CAMEL based
services, information to identify the registered profile shall be passed
to the CAMEL server.

7.4 Interactions with OR
------------------------

No interaction

NOTE: It is a HPLMN option to allow or deny OR of forwarded calls where
the HPLMN recognises that the IPLMN does not support MSP. This is due to
the requirement to include an indication of the profile ID in call
detail records which may be raised in the IPLMN and sent to the HPLMN.

7.5 Operator Determined Barring
-------------------------------

ODB shall apply either per subscriber or per profile.

7.6 Roaming restrictions 
------------------------

These will apply on a per subscriber basis.

8 Cross-Phase Compatibility
===========================

The default profile will be sent to the visited network and can be
addressed by non-supporting networks.

Mobile terminated calls to a non-supporting MS shall still be accepted
but the indication of profile may not be supported.

######### Annex A (informative): Change history

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Change history</strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>TSGÂ SA#</strong></td>
<td><strong>SA Doc.</strong></td>
<td><strong>SA1 Doc</strong></td>
<td><strong>Spec</strong></td>
<td><strong>CR</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rev</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rel</strong></td>
<td><strong>Cat</strong></td>
<td><strong>Subject/Comment</strong></td>
<td><strong>Old</strong></td>
<td><strong>New</strong></td>
<td><strong>Work Item</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Jun 1999</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>GSMÂ </p>
<p>02.97</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP SA1</td>
<td>7.1.0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SA#04</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP SA1</td>
<td></td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-05</td>
<td>SP-99479</td>
<td>S1-99640</td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td>001</td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td>D</td>
<td>Editorial changes for alignment</td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td>3.1.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-05</td>
<td>SP-99451</td>
<td>S1-99842</td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td>002</td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>MSP Phase2</td>
<td>3.0.0</td>
<td>3.1.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-09</td>
<td>SP-000375</td>
<td>S1-000584</td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td>003</td>
<td></td>
<td>R99</td>
<td>F</td>
<td>Interaction with Multicall</td>
<td>3.1.0</td>
<td>3.2.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-11</td>
<td>SP-010065</td>
<td>S1-010258</td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-4</td>
<td></td>
<td>Transferred to 3GPP Release 4</td>
<td>3.2.0</td>
<td>4.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-15</td>
<td>SP-020045</td>
<td>S1-020457</td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td>004</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Rel-4</td>
<td>F</td>
<td>Editorial CR to correct terms and references</td>
<td>4.0.0</td>
<td>4.1.0</td>
<td>CORRECT</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-16</td>
<td>SP-020267</td>
<td>S1-021043</td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5</td>
<td>4.1.0</td>
<td>5.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-26</td>
<td>SP-040744</td>
<td>S1-040997</td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-6</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-5 to Rel-6</td>
<td>5.0.0</td>
<td>6.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-36</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>22.097</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-7</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-6 to Rel-7</td>
<td>6.0.0</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SP-42</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Rel-8</td>
<td></td>
<td>Updated from Rel-7 to Rel-8</td>
<td>7.0.0</td>
<td>8.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SP-46</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-9 by MCC</td>
<td>8.0.0</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2011-03</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)</td>
<td>9.0.0</td>
<td>10.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2012-09</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-11 by MCC</td>
<td>10.0.0</td>
<td>11.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2014-10</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)</td>
<td>11.0.0</td>
<td>12.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2015-12</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-13 by MCC</td>
<td>12.0.0</td>
<td>13.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2017-03</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-14 by MCC</td>
<td>13.0.0</td>
<td>14.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2018-06</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-15 by MCC</td>
<td>14.0.0</td>
<td>15.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SA#88e</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Updated to Rel-16 by MCC</td>
<td>15.0.0</td>
<td>16.0.0</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
