![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[4](#introduction)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#void)

[6](#void-1)

[7](#annex-a-informative-void)

[7](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2
References 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Symbols 3.3 Abbreviations 4 Void 5 Void Annex A (informative): Void
Annex B (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

Interest in using cellular connectivity to support Unmanned Aerial
Systems (UAS) is strong, and the 3GPP ecosystem offers excellent
benefits for UAS operation. Ubiquitous coverage, high reliability and
QoS, robust security, and seamless mobility are critical factors to
supporting UAS command and control functions. In parallel, regulators
are investigating safety and performance standards and Registration and
licensing programs to develop a well-functioning private and civil UAS
ecosystem which can safely coexist with commercial air traffic, public
and private infrastructure, and the general population.

The 3GPP system can provide control plane and user plane communication
services for UAS. Examples of services which can be offered to the UAS
ecosystem includes data services for command and control (C2),
telematics, UAS-generated data, remote identification, and
authorisation, enforcement, and regulation of UAS operation.

1 Scope
=======

The present document identifies the requirements for operation of
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) via the 3GPP system.

This includes requirements for meeting the business, security, and
public safety needs for the remote identification and tracking of UAS
linked to a 3GPP subscription.

Note: This specification will not be maintained anymore in Rel-16;
please refer to future Releases of this specification.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**Unmanned Aerial System (UAS):** Composed of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
(UAV) and related functionality, including command and control (C2)
links between the UAV and the control station, the UAV and the network,
and for remote identification. An UAS may comprise of a UAV and a UAV
controller.

**Unmanned Aerial System Traffic Management (UTM):** a set of functions
and services for managing a range of autonomous vehicle operations.

**UAV controller**: The UAV controller of a UAS enables a drone pilot to
control an UAV. BVLOS Beyond Visual Line of Sight

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

4 Void
======

5 Void 
======

######## Annex A (informative): Void

########  Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                             **New version**
  24/08/2018           SA1\#83       S1-182766   \-       \-        \-        Skeleton created                                                0.1.0
  16/11/2018           SA1\#84       S1-183278   \-       \-        \-        TS22.125 v0.2.0 created to include agreements at this meeting   0.2.0
  2018-12              SA\#82        SP-181009   \-       \-        \-        Presentation for one-step approval to SA                        1.0.0
  2018-12              SA\#82        SP-181009   \-       \-        \-        Raised to v.16.0.0 following SA\#82's one step approval         16.0.0
  2019-03              SA\#83        SP-190083   0001     2         C         Removal of requirement on enforcement                           16.1.0
  2019-03              SA\#83        SP-190083   0005     1         F         Detect and report the problematic UAV controller to UTM         16.1.0
  2019-03              SA\#83        SP-190083   0009     1         F         Clarification for identity of UAV controller data               16.1.0
  2019-03              SA\#83        SP-190083   0008     1         B         Addition for Abbreviations                                      16.1.0
  2019-03              SA\#83        SP-190083   0003     3         F         Clarification of Centralized UTM                                16.1.0
  2019-03              SA\#83        SP-190083   0004     3         F         Clarification of Decentralized UTM for Collision Avoidance      16.1.0
  2019-03              SA\#83        SP-190083   0002     2         F         Clarification of UTM Definition                                 16.1.0
  2019-03              SA\#83        SP-190083   0006     3         B         Definition and Clarification for UTM                            16.1.0
  2019-06              SA\#84        SP-190300   0010     3         F         Rewording the enforcement requirement in section 5.2            16.2.0
  2019-09              SA\#85        SP-190801   0021     2         F         Clarifications on UAS terminology and model                     16.3.0
  2021-03              SA\#91e       SP-210197   0033     1         F         Clean-up alignment of R16 UAS requirements                      16.4.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
