![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.3284722222222223in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#overview-of-system-optimizations-for-machine-type-communications)

[8](#mtc-communication-aspects)

[8](#mtc-communication-scenarios)

[8](#introduction)

[8](#mtc-devices-communicating-with-one-or-more-mtc-servers)

[9](#mtc-devices-communicating-with-each-other)

[9](#void)

[10](#categories-of-features-for-machine-type-communications)

[11](#service-requirements)

[11](#common-service-requirements)

[11](#general)

[12](#mtc-device-triggering)

[12](#addressing)

[13](#identifiers)

[14](#charging-requirements)

[14](#security-requirements)

[14](#remote-mtc-device-management)

[14](#specific-service-requirements-mtc-features)

[14](#low-mobility)

[14](#time-controlled)

[15](#void-1)

[15](#void-2)

[15](#small-data-transmissions)

[16](#void-3)

[16](#infrequent-mobile-terminated)

[16](#mtc-monitoring)

[17](#void-4)

[17](#secure-connection)

[17](#void-5)

[17](#void-6)

[17](#void-7)

[17](#group-based-mtc-features)

[17](#general-1)

[17](#group-based-policing)

[17](#group-based-addressing)

[19](#annex-a-informative-use-cases)

[23](#annex-b-informative-examples-of-mtc-applications)

[24](#annex-c-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Overview of system optimizations for machine-type communications 5 MTC
communication aspects 5.1 MTC communication scenarios 5.1.1 Introduction
5.1.2 MTC devices communicating with one or more MTC servers 5.1.3 MTC
devices communicating with each other 5.2 (void) 6 Categories of
features for Machine-Type Communications 7 Service requirements 7.1
Common service requirements 7.1.1 General 7.1.2 MTC Device triggering
7.1.3 Addressing 7.1.4 Identifiers 7.1.5 Charging requirements 7.1.6
Security requirements 7.1.7 Remote MTC device management 7.2. Specific
service requirements -- MTC Features 7.2.1 Low Mobility 7.2.2 Time
Controlled 7.2.3 Void 7.2.4 Void 7.2.5 Small Data Transmissions 7.2.6
Void 7.2.7 Infrequent Mobile Terminated 7.2.8 MTC Monitoring 7.2.9 Void
7.2.10 Secure Connection 7.2.11 Void 7.2.12 Void 7.2.13 Void 7.2.14
Group Based MTC Features 7.2.14.1 General 7.2.14.2 Group Based Policing
7.2.14.3 Group Based Addressing Annex A (informative): Use cases Annex B
(informative): Examples of MTC applications Annex C (informative):
Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the service requirements for Network
Improvements for Machine Type Communications. In particular it will:

\- identify and specify general requirements for machine type
communications;

\- identify service aspects where network improvements (compared to the
current human-to-human oriented services) are needed to cater for the
specific nature of machine-type communications;

\- specify machine type communication requirements for these service
aspects where network improvements are needed for machine type
communication.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.011: \" Service accessibility\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate
communications with packet data networks and applications\".

\[4\] ETSI TS 102 690: \"Machine-to-Machine communications (M2M);
functional architecture\".

\[5\] ETSI TS 102 921: \" Machine-to-Machine communications (M2M); mla,
dla, and mld interfaces\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply.\
A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**MTC Device:** A MTC Device is a UE equipped for Machine Type
Communication, which communicates through a PLMN with MTC Server(s)
and/or other MTC Device(s).

Note 1: A MTC Device might also communicate locally (wirelessly,
possibly through a Personal Area Network, or hardwired) with other
entities which provide the MTC Device \"raw data\" for processing and
communication to the MTC Server(s) and/or other MTC Device(s). Local
communication between MTC Device(s) and other entities is out of scope
of the present document.

**MTC Feature:** MTC Features are network functions to optimize the
network for use by M2M applications.

**MTC Group:** A MTC Group is a group of MTC Devices that share one or
more MTC Features and that belong to the same MTC Subscriber.

**MTC Server:** A MTC Server is a server, which communicates to the PLMN
itself, and to MTC Devices through the PLMN. The MTC Server can also
have an interface which can be accessed by the MTC User. The MTC Server
can:

> \- Provide services for other servers (e.g. The MTC Server is a
> Services Capability Server 3GPP TS 23.682 \[3\] for an Application
> Server \[3\]), and/or
>
> \- Provide services for applications and can host the application
> (e.g. The MTC Server is an Application Server \[3\]).

**MTC User:** A MTC User uses the service provided by the MTC Server.

**MTC Subscriber:** A MTC Subscriber is a legal entity having a
contractual relationship with the network operator to provide service to
one or more MTC Devices.

Note 2: Typically a M2M service provider is the party holding
subscriptions in order to provide connectivity between MTC Devices and
the MTC Server. In practise certain roles can collapse, e.g. the network
operator acts as the same time as service provider.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply.\
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

NIMTC Network Improvements for Machine Type Communications

MNO Mobile Network Operator

MTC Machine-Type Communications

4 Overview of system optimizations for machine-type communications
==================================================================

Machine-type communication is a form of data communication which
involves one or more entities that do not necessarily need human
interaction.

A service optimized for machine type communications differs from a
service optimized for Human to Human communications. Machine-type
communications is different to current mobile network communication
services as it involves:

a)  different market scenarios,

b)  data communications,

c)  lower costs and effort,

d)  a potentially very large number of communicating terminals with,

e)  to a large extent, little traffic per terminal.

For the purpose of the present document, the term MTC is used for the
purpose to describe use-cases and illustrate the diverse characteristics
of machine-type communication services.

The informative annex A gives an overview of MTC use-cases which also
illustrate different overload scenarios which will require overload
control functions to prevent overload and to differentiate between
services offered to different subscribers with different service
requirements. In particular, certain MTC services and MTC applications,
as exemplified in annex B, are more tolerant and can accept a lower
level of performance requirements for its communication services.
However, some MTC services will have similar service requirements as
current mobile network communication services.

5 MTC communication aspects
===========================

5.1 MTC communication scenarios
-------------------------------

### 5.1.1 Introduction

For MTC communication the following communication scenarios can be
identified:

a)  MTC Devices communicating with one or more MTC Server;

b)  MTC Devices communicating with each other.

### 5.1.2 MTC devices communicating with one or more MTC servers

The network operator provides network connectivity to MTC Server(s).
This applies to MTC Server(s) controlled by the network operator (refer
to figure 5-1) or to MTC Server(s) not controlled by the network
operator (refer to figure 5-2.)

![](media/image3.wmf){width="5.01875in" height="2.452777777777778in"}

Figure 5-1: Communication scenario with MTC devices communicating with
MTC server.\
MTC server is located in the operator domain.

Figure 5-2: Communication scenario with MTC devices communicating with
MTC server.\
MTC server is located outside the operator domain.

The MTC Device and the MTC Server it is communicating with may implement
a service enablement framework (e.g. as specified in \[4\] and \[5\]) to
provide generic functionality for applications. The MTC Device may
implement multiple instances of service enablement frameworks, each
communicating with a different MTC Server.

Note 1: the standardization of service enablement frameworks is out of
scope of 3GPP.

Note 2: as an example, a device can have two (or more) service
enablement frameworks, both compliant to the same specific standard or
belonging to the same proprietary implementation. Each one has to be
peered to a different MTC server.

### 5.1.3 MTC devices communicating with each other

The communication scenario where the MTC Devices communicate directly
without intermediate MTC Server (refer to figure 5-3) is not considered
in this release of the specification.

Figure 5-3: MTC Devices communicating directly with each other without
intermediate MTC server

5.2 (void) 
----------

6 Categories of features for Machine-Type Communications
========================================================

Machine-Type Communication (MTC) applications do not all have the same
characteristics. This implies that not every system optimization is
suitable for every MTC application. Therefore, MTC Features are defined
to provide structure for the different system optimization possibilities
that can be invoked. MTC Features provided to a particular subscriber
are identified in the subscription. MTC Features can be individually
activated.

The following MTC Features have been defined:

\- Low Mobility;

\- Time Controlled;

\- Small Data Transmissions;

\- Infrequent Mobile Terminated;

\- MTC Monitoring;

\- Secure Connection;

\- Group Based MTC Features:

\- Group Based Policing;

\- Group Based Addressing.

7 Service requirements
======================

7.1 Common service requirements
-------------------------------

### 7.1.1 General

The following are MTC common service requirements:

\- The network shall enable the network operator to identify per
subscription which individual MTC Features are subscribed to by a
particular MTC Subscriber.

\- The network shall provide a mechanism for the MTC Subscriber to
activate or deactivate MTC Features.

\- The network shall enable the network operator to identify which
individual MTC Features are activated for a particular MTC Subscriber.

Note 1: The activation/deactivation functionality can be provided via a
web interface that is outside the scope of 3GPP specifications.

\- The network shall provide a mechanism for the network operator to
control the addition or removal of individual MTC Features to a
subscription (e.g. based on matching or mismatching of MTC Features).

\- The network shall provide a mechanism for the network operator to
restrict activation of MTC Features\
(e.g. based on matching or mismatching of MTC Features).

\- The network may provide a mechanism for the network operator to allow
MTC Devices to override restrictions imposed by a particular MTC
Feature.

\- The network operator shall be able to restrict the use of a USIM to
specific MEs/MTC Devices.

\- The network shall provide a mechanism to reduce peaks in the data and
signalling traffic resulting from very large numbers of MTC Devices
(almost) simultaneously attempting data and/or signalling interactions.

\- The network shall provide a mechanism to restrict downlink data and
signalling when the network is overloaded.

\- The network shall provide a mechanism to restrict access towards a
specific APN when the network is overloaded.

\- A MTC Device may support the Extended Access Barring (EAB) mechanism
defined in TS 22.011 \[2\].

\- A MTC Device supporting the EAB mechanism shall be able to be
configured for EAB by the HPLMN.

\- The HPLMN shall be able to configure EAB on a MTC Device that
supports it.

\- Once configured, and upon reception of broadcasted EAB information,
the MTC Device shall adhere to the defined EAB mechanisms.

Note 2: The decision of whether a MTC Device is configured for EAB is
out of 3GPP scope. In general, MTC Devices considered more tolerant to
access restrictions are well suited to be configured for EAB.

\- The system shall provide mechanisms to efficiently maintain
connectivity for a large number of MTC Devices.

\- The network shall provide mechanisms to handle MTC Devices and
applications on MTC Devices registering on the IP multimedia core
network subsystem and accessing its capabilities including interaction
with IMS application servers/enablers.

\- Configuration parameters which are provided in the USIM shall take
precedence over parameters provided in the MTC Device if both exist.

\- The network shall allow a resource efficient registration of MTC
Devices and applications on MTC Devices on the IP multimedia core
network subsystem (e.g. no need of a permanently assigned ID per MTC
Device)

\- The system shall provide mechanisms to lower power consumption of MTC
Devices.

\- The system shall provide a resource efficient way to support MTC
Devices that send or receive data infrequently, i.e. with long periods
between data transmissions.

\- MTC Devices may or may not be kept attached to the network when not
communicating, depending on operator policies and MTC Application
requirements.

\- MTC Devices may keep their data connection or not keep their data
connection when not communicating, depending on operator policies and
MTC Application requirements.

### 7.1.2 MTC Device triggering

The requirements related to MTC Device triggering include the following:

\- The network shall be able to trigger MTC Devices to initiate
communication with the MTC Server based on a trigger indication from the
MTC Server.

\- The system shall provide a mechanism such that only trigger
indications received from authorized MTC Servers will lead to triggering
of MTC Devices.

\- Upon receiving a trigger indication from a source that is not an
authorized MTC Server, the network shall be able to provide the details
of the source (e.g. address) to the MTC User.

\- The system shall provide a mechanism to the MTC User to provide a set
of authorized MTC Server(s).

\- Upon receiving a trigger indication, if the network is not able to
trigger the MTC Device, the 3GPP system may send an indication to the
MTC Server that triggering the MTC Device has been suppressed.

Note: Suppression of triggering could be due to system conditions such
as network congestion.

\- A MTC Device shall be able to receive trigger indications from the
network and shall establish communication with the MTC Server when
receiving the trigger indication. Possible options may include:

\- Receiving trigger indication when the MTC Device is not attached to
the network.

\- Receiving trigger indication when the MTC Device is attached to the
network, but has no data connection established.

\- Receiving trigger indication when the MTC Device is attached to the
network and has a data connection established.

### 7.1.3 Addressing

The system shall provide mechanisms, according to operator policy, where
an MTC Server can send a mobile terminated message to the MTC Device.
Scenarios include:

\- The MTC Server is located in the public IPv6 address space. The MTC
Device is assigned a public IPv6 address by the MNO.

Figure 7-1: MTC server and the MTC Device in the public IPv6 address
space

\- The MTC Server is located in a public IPv4 address space; the MTC
Device is assigned a private IPv4 address by the MNO.

> Alternatively, the MTC Server is located in a private IPv4 address
> space and is assigned a private IPv4 address by the MNO; the MTC
> Device is assigned a private IPv4 address by the MNO corresponding to
> the same IPv4 address space as the MTC Server.

Figure 7-2: MTC Server in a public or private IPv4 address space,\
MTC Device in a private IPv4 address space

### 7.1.4 Identifiers

The requirements for MTC related to identifiers include the following:

\- The system shall be able to uniquely identify the ME;

\- The system shall be able to uniquely identify the MTC Subscriber.

Note 1: The two requirements above also apply to human-to-human
communications. However, for Machine-Type Communications identifiers
will have to be able to cater for a number of identifiers at least two
orders of magnitude higher than for human-to-human communications.

-   In order to use MTC triggering, the system shall support association
    between an MTC Device identity and one or more Service Enablement
    Framework individually.

Note 2: The Service Enablement Framework server in the network needs to
associate its peer Service Enablement Framework client on the MTC Device
with the external identifier of the MTC Device.\
Preconfiguration of the association is sufficient when the Service
Enablement Framework knows the MTC Device identities in advance to the
starting of the service, but this does not match all the relevant
scenarios of service deployment.

\- The system shall provide mechanisms for the network operator to
efficiently manage numbers and identifiers related to MTC Subscribers.

### 7.1.5 Charging requirements

The core network shall be able to:

\- count MTC Feature activation / de-activation.

\- collect charging data with a granularity (e.g. in time or location)
that can identify the use of network resources when used outside the
limits of subscription or MTC Feature, e.g. time window, location, or
can identify when the MTC Device is overriding other restrictions (e.g.
low priority).

\- count particular Monitoring events.

Note: The above charging requirements apply to off line charging only.

### 7.1.6 Security requirements

The security requirements for MTC include the following:

\- MTC optimizations shall not degrade security compared to non-MTC
communications

### 7.1.7 Remote MTC device management

The operator shall be able to manage MTC Devices using existing
mechanisms (e.g. OMA DM)

7.2. Specific service requirements -- MTC Features
--------------------------------------------------

### 7.2.1 Low Mobility

The MTC Feature Low Mobility is intended for use with MTC Devices that
do not move, move infrequently, or move only within a certain region.

For the Low Mobility MTC Feature:

\- The network operator shall be able to change the frequency of
mobility management procedures or simplify mobility management per MTC
Device.

\- The network operator shall be able to define the frequency of
location updates performed by the MTC Device.

### 7.2.2 Time Controlled

The MTC Feature Time Controlled is intended for use with MTC
Applications that can tolerate to send or receive data only during
defined time intervals and avoid unnecessary signalling outside these
defined time intervals. The network operator may allow such MTC
Applications to send/receive data and signalling outside of these
defined time intervals but charge differently for such traffic.

For the Time Controlled MTC Feature:

\- The network operator shall be able to reject access requests per MTC
Device (e.g. attach to the network or set up a data connection) outside
a defined access grant time interval.

Note 1: The Time Controlled MTC Feature does not affect the MTC Server
to send trigger indications to the MTC Device.

\- The network operator shall be able to allow access (e.g. attach to
the network or set up a data connection) outside a defined access grant
time interval and charge this differently.

\- The network shall reject access requests per MTC Device (e.g. attach
to the network or set up a data connection) during a defined forbidden
time interval (e.g. to allow maintenance of a MTC Server).

\- The local network shall be able to alter the access grant time
interval based on local criteria (e.g. daily traffic load, time zones).
The forbidden time interval shall not be altered.

Note 2: It is assumed that an access grant time interval will not
overlap a forbidden time interval.

Note 3: \"Local network\" can refer to a VPLMN in roaming case, or to
the local part of a large RPLMN (e.g. that spans across multiple time
zones).

\- The network shall be able to restrict the duration of access by
terminating access (e.g. detach or disconnect a data connection) after a
defined access duration.

Note 4: The defined access duration (e.g. 10 minutes) is pre-agreed
between the network operator and the MTC Subscriber, and is typically
long enough to ensure the completion of normal communication between MTC
Device and MTC Server.

\- The MTC Device may disconnect immediately when it finishes its
communications with the MTC Server before wait until the end of the
access duration.

\- The network shall communicate the (altered) access grant time
interval and the access duration to the MTC Device.

\- The network may communicate the (altered) access grant time interval
and the access duration to the MTC Server/MTC User.

Note 5: It is desirable that access of MTC Devices with the same access
grant time interval is distributed across this interval in a manner to
reduce peaks in the signalling and data traffic.

### 7.2.3 Void

### 7.2.4 Void

### 7.2.5 Small Data Transmissions

The MTC Feature Small Data Transmissions is intended for use with MTC
Devices that send or receive small amounts of data.

For the Small Data Transmissions MTC Feature:

\- The system shall support transmissions of small amounts of data with
minimal network impact (e.g. signalling overhead, network resources,
delay for reallocation).

\- Before transmission of small amount of data, the MTC Device may be
attached or detached to/from the network.

Note 1: \"Transmission\" implies either sending or receiving small
amount of data.

\- The 3GPP system shall be able to count the number of small data
transmissions per subscription e.g. for charging or statistical
purposes.

Note 2: observed size of many of the instances of data exchanges is on
the order of 1K (1024) octets

Note 3: Charging and accounting of small data transmissions between
operators can be done on a bulk basis.

### 7.2.6 Void

### 7.2.7 Infrequent Mobile Terminated

The MTC Feature Infrequent Mobile Terminated is intended for use with
MTC Devices that mainly utilize mobile originated communications.

For the Infrequent Mobile Terminated MTC Feature:

\- The network operator shall be able to reduce the frequency of
mobility management procedures per MTC Device.

\- The network shall be able to maintain information on when the MTC
Device is not reachable for mobile terminated communications. The
network shall not trigger the MTC Device when it is known to be
unreachable, and instead may inform the MTC Server that the MTC Device
is not reachable.

Note: With the Infrequent Mobile Terminated MTC Feature, the network
operator should be able to minimize mobility management due to MTC
Device movement .

### 7.2.8 MTC Monitoring

The MTC Feature MTC Monitoring is intended for monitoring MTC Device
related events.

For the MTC Monitoring MTC Feature:

\- The system shall provide mechanisms to detect the following events:

\- behaviour which is not aligned with activated MTC Feature(s)

\- change of the association between the ME and the USIM

\- loss of connectivity. The maximum time between the actual loss of
connectivity occurred and the loss of connectivity detected shall be
configurable per subscription.

\- communication failure events of the UE visible to the network (e.g.
for troubleshooting)

\- change of the location (geographical position and/or point of
attachment in the network) of the MTC Device.

Note 1: Loss of connectivity means it is no longer possible to establish
signalling between the MTC Device and the network.

Note 2: The maximum detection time is on the order of 1 minute to 1
hour.

\- The MTC Subscriber shall be able to define which of the above events
will be detected.

\- Upon the above event detection, the network shall be able to:

\- provide a warning notification to the MTC Server;

\- limit the services provided to the MTC Device (e.g. reduce allocated
resource).

\- The MTC User shall be able to define what occurs when an event is
detected.

\- The MTC Device shall be able to transfer other event notification to
the MTC Server where the event detection is out of 3GPP scope, for
example, the loss of signal reception, notification when the MTC Device
power level is lower than a threshold.

Note 3: Loss of signal reception refers to a situation when a MTC Device
can no longer receive the network which could be due to interference
(e.g. from a jammer or other source) or other reasons.

### 7.2.9 Void

### 7.2.10 Secure Connection

The MTC Feature Secure Connection is intended for use with MTC Devices
that require a secure connection between the MTC Device and MTC
Server/MTC Application Server.

For the Secure Connection MTC Feature:

\- The network operator shall be able to efficiently provide network
security for connection between MTC Device and a MTC Server or between
MTC Device and a MTC Application Server in case there is a direct
connection with the MTC Application Server. This applies even when some
of the devices are roaming i.e. connected via a VPLMN.

### 7.2.11 Void

### 7.2.12 Void

### 7.2.13 Void

### 7.2.14 Group Based MTC Features

#### 7.2.14.1 General

A Group Based MTC Feature is a MTC Feature that applies to an MTC Group.

\- The system shall be optimized to handle MTC Groups. The system shall
provide a mechanism to associate an MTC Device to a single MTC Group.

\- Each Group Based MTC Feature is applicable to all the members of the
MTC Group.

\- An MTC Group shall be identified uniquely across 3GPP networks.

Note 1: With Group Based MTC Features, each MTC Device is visible from
the 3GPP Network perspective.

Note 2: MTC Features that are not Group Based MTC Features can also be
applied to MTC Group members.

Note 3: An MTC Device can belong to more than one MTC group, but policy
conflicts need to be avoided through administrative means.

#### 7.2.14.2 Group Based Policing

The MTC Feature Group Based Policing is intended for use with a MTC
Group for which the network operator wants to enforce a combined QoS
policy.

For the Group Based Policing MTC Feature:

\- A maximum bit rate for the data that is sent/received by a MTC Group
shall be enforced.

Note: Policy control could be static to reduce complexity. In this case,
static means that the policy for a specific MTC Group is fixed for the
group and does not change due to dynamic conditions.

#### 7.2.14.3 Group Based Addressing

MTC Feature Group Based Addressing is intended for use with a MTC Group
for which the network operator wants to optimize the message volume when
many MTC Devices need to receive the same message.

For the Group Based Addressing MTC Feature:

\- The network shall provide a mechanism to send a broadcast message
within a particular geographic area, e.g. to wake up the MTC Devices
that are members of that MTC Group; only MTC Devices of the target group
configured to receive the broadcast message will recognize it.

Note 1: The geographic area for the broadcast may be a cell sector, a
cell or a group of cells.

Note 2: Verification of receipt of a broadcast message is not necessary.

######## Annex A (informative): Use cases

**Addressing from a centralized entity Use Case**

Metering devices are typically monitored and controlled by a centralized
entity outside or inside the network operator system. Due to the need
for centralized control, the centralized entity will inform or poll the
metering device when it needs measurement information rather than the
metering device autonomously sending measurements. Depending on the
nature of the metering application, low latency responses are sometimes
required (metering for high pressure pipelines for example). To
accomplish this, the centralized entity will need to inform the metering
device when it needs a measurement. Typically due to the limitation of
IPv4 address space, the metering terminal is behind a NAT (Network
Address Translator) where it is not assigned a routable IPv4 address.

**Theft /Vandalism Vulnerable MTC Application Use Case**

In contrast to the traditional H2H devices, which are carefully held and
protected by a person, MTC Devices are often located in remote areas and
ideally are untouched after installation for many years. The remote
locations make these devices more susceptible to tampering by
unauthorized persons. The tampering of the MTC Device is often
accompanied by damage to the metering device. The network has security
mechanisms for protection for this type of activity which may not be
effective for MTC Devices. The network can not prevent it but can detect
it as early as possible in order to deactivate the ME\'s service and the
related USIM. In addition, often theft/vandalism vulnerable MTC Devices
are stationary after initial installation and activation. The
stationality of the MTC Device can be utilized to improve the detection
of theft. If a known stationary devices moves, it can be concluded that
the MTC Device has been stolen and thus the account deactivated.

**Time Controlled MTC Application Use Case**

For some MTC applications the actual time at which communication takes
place is less important, but low communication costs are extremely
important. A network operator can offer low communication fees for this
type of applications by allowing communication to take place during low
traffic time periods only. Possibly the network operator may want to
dynamically adjust these time periods based on the actual network
traffic load at a specific time.

**Radio Network Congestion Use Case**

Radio network congestion because of mass concurrent data transmission
takes place in some MTC applications. One of the typical applications is
the bridge monitoring with a mass of sensors. When a train passes
through the bridge, all the sensors transmit the monitoring data almost
simultaneously. The same thing happens in hydrology monitoring during
the time of heavy rain and in building monitoring when intruders break
in. The network should be optimized to enable a mass of MTC Devices in a
particular area to transmit data almost simultaneously.

**Core Network Congestion Use Case**

With many MTC applications, a large number of MTC Devices is affiliated
with a single MTC User. These MTC Devices together are part of a MTC
Group. The MTC User associated with the MTC Group owns a MTC Server
which is connected to the PS network of a mobile network operator via an
Access Point Name (APN) using the Gi interface. The MTC Devices in the
MTC Group communicate with this MTC Server.

Typically, the MTC Devices in the MTC Group are scattered over the
network in such a way that the data simultaneously sent by the MTC
Devices in any particular cell is limited and will not cause a radio
network overload. Despite this, when a high number of MTC Devices are
sending/receiving data simultaneously, data congestion may occur in the
mobile core network or on the link between mobile core network and MTC
Server where the data traffic related to MTC Group is aggregated.
Preferably, a network operator and the MTC User have means to enforce a
maximum rate for the data sent/received by the MTC Group.

![](media/image9.png){width="3.9368055555555554in"
height="2.097916666666667in"}

Figure A-1: Congestion in mobile core network and on the link between
mobile core network and MTC Server

**Signalling Network Congestion Use Case**

Congestion in the signalling network is caused by a high number of MTC
Devices trying almost simultaneously: (1) to attach to the network or
(2) to activate/modify/deactivate a connection. In a 3GPP system
supporting MTC applications such an overload of the network can be
caused by e.g. many mobile payment terminals that become active on a
national holiday or by high numbers of metering devices becoming active
almost simultaneously after a period of power outage. Also some MTC
applications generate recurring data transmissions at precisely
synchronous time intervals (e.g. precisely every hour or half hour).
Preferably, the 3GPP system provides means to the network operator and
MTC User to spread the resulting peaks in the signalling traffic.

![](media/image10.wmf){width="4.027083333333334in"
height="2.151388888888889in"}

Figure A-2: Signalling network congestion

**Access Control with billing plan Use Case**

In some configurations, it may be necessary to restrict the access of a
UICC that is dedicated to be used only with machine-type modules
associated with a specific billing plan. It should be possible to
associate a list of UICC to a list of terminal identity such as IMEISV
so that if the UICC is used in an other terminal type, the access will
be refused.\
See the following configuration:

![](media/image11.wmf){width="4.7027777777777775in"
height="3.873611111111111in"}

Figure A-3: Access Control with billing plan

**Extra Low Power Consumption Use Case**

For high mobility case, tracking MTC devices such as animal tracking MTC
devices in natural world with high mobility require extra low power
consumption because it is almost impossible to replace the battery or
recharge the battery for animal tracking MTC device. Compared to the
tracking devices installed in the cars and trucks because cars and
trucks could generate electricity by themselves, extra low power
consumption for these MTC devices is required.

For cargo tracking, the cargo with a tracking MTC device could move very
fast such as on a train or lorry and could stand still such as in the
dock before loading or unloading. It is not desired to either change its
battery or replace battery during the transport period, so extra low
power consumption MTC devices are also required.

For prisoner tracking MTC devices are already used by police, prisoners
will not cooperate with police and would wish the MTC devices have flat
batteries; therefore, extra low power consumption feature is required
for these MTC devices. For the tracking MTC devices of elder people who
have memory problem, children or pets, even the batteries of these MTC
devices could be replaced or charged, however, considering the worst
scenario -- if they are missing, it requires the MTC devices with extra
low power consumption and long working time in order to find them.

For low mobility case, the gas meter MTC devices must be battery
powered. Extra low power consumption for gas MTC devices is much more
critical than electricity meters.

**Extra Low Power Consumption with Time Controlled MTC Devices Use
Case**

Time Controlled MTC Devices which send or receive data only at certain
pre-defined periods may be operated in one or more modes that minimize
power consumption.

An MTC Device may be operated in a mode where it is expected to receive
non-periodic messages (e.g. emergency messages or notifications of
altered access period as with the MTC Feature Time Controlled outside
the time controlled periods. The MTC Device should minimize power
consumption while in a mode to support this.

If the application requires the MTC Device to send or receive data
within pre-defined periods and receive non-periodic messages outside
these periods, operation at the lowest possible power consumption level
to extend battery life should be achieved.

**End-to-end security for roaming MTC devices**

An MTC Application communicates with a large number of MTC Devices that
are located globally and may or may not be mobile. Examples of such
devices are mobile navigation systems and payment terminals.
Connectivity for the MTC Devices is provided by a single network
operator that uses its roaming agreements to connect MTC Devices that
are not within range of its own network.

From the perspective of the operator of the MTC application its MTC
Server and the domain of its network operator are part of a trusted
domain. However, the domain of the roaming operator are not seen as part
of the trusted domain, as is depicted in the figure below.

![](media/image12.wmf){width="3.8402777777777777in"
height="2.182638888888889in"}

Figure A-4: End-to-end security for roaming MTC devices

The operator of the MTC application therefore requires end-to-end
security for messages exchanged between MTC application and MTC Devices.
The network operator does not have control over the security features in
the domain of the roaming operators. Furthermore, for efficiency reasons
the roaming operators may decide on a local breakout to for instance the
Internet for MTC traffic in which case the information partly travels
over the Internet. The network operator needs to satisfy the MTC
application owner\'s end-to-end security requirement without relying on
network security alone.

######## Annex B (informative): Examples of MTC applications

Some examples of machine‑type communication applications are listed in
the following table. This list is not exhaustive and is intended to be
indicative of the scope of machine‑type communication applications.

+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Service Area               | MTC applications                               |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Security                   | Surveillance systems                           |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Backup for landline                            |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Control of physical access (e.g. to buildings) |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Car/driver security                            |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Tracking & Tracing         | Fleet Management                               |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Order Management                               |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Pay as you drive                               |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Asset Tracking                                 |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Navigation                                     |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Traffic information                            |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Road tolling                                   |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Road traffic optimization/steering             |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Payment                    | Point of sales                                 |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Vending machines                               |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Gaming machines                                |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Health                     | Monitoring vital signs                         |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Supporting the aged or handicapped             |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Web Access Telemedicine points                 |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Remote diagnostics                             |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Remote Maintenance/Control | Sensors                                        |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Lighting                                       |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Pumps                                          |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Valves                                         |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Elevator control                               |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Vending machine control                        |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Vehicle diagnostics                            |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Metering                   | Power                                          |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Gas                                            |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Water                                          |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Heating                                        |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Grid control                                   |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Industrial metering                            |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Consumer Devices           | Digital photo frame                            |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | Digital camera                                 |
|                            |                                                |
|                            | eBook                                          |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+

######## Annex C (informative): Change history

  -------------- ------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ------------
  **TSG SA\#**   **SA Doc.**   **SA1 Doc**   **Spec**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Rel**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                                                 **Old**   **New**   **WI**
  SP-47          SP-100192     \-            22.220     \-       \-        \-        \-        Raised from v1.2.2 to v.2.0.0 for approval                                                                                                          1.2.2     2.0.0     NIMTC
  SP-47          \-            \-            22.220     \-       \-        \-        \-        Raised from v.2.0.0 to v.10.0.0 after approval of SA\#47                                                                                            2.0.0     10.0.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101157     22.368     0001     2         Rel-10    F         Deletion of section 5.2                                                                                                                             10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101158     22.368     0003     2         Rel-10    F         Clarification of PAM                                                                                                                                10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101138     22.368     0005     1         Rel-10    F         CR to TS22.368 Clarification of Location Specific Trigger                                                                                           10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101139     22.368     0006     1         Rel-10    F         CR to TS22.368 Clarification of Infrequent Transmission                                                                                             10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101159     22.368     0009     3         Rel-10    F         Clarification of Requirements for Time Controlled MTC Feature                                                                                       10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100435     S1-101143r    22.368     0010     2         Rel-10    F         Clarification and completion of PAM requirements                                                                                                    10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101142     22.368     0011     1         Rel-10    F         Clarification of local network in Time Controlled                                                                                                   10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101077     22.368     0013     \-        Rel-10    F         Correction of missing changes to clause 7.2.2                                                                                                       10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101078     22.368     0014     \-        Rel-10    F         Correction of terminology                                                                                                                           10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101080     22.368     0015     \-        Rel-10    F         Clarification of \"may\" in clause 7.2.2                                                                                                            10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-48          SP-100400     S1-101083     22.368     0017     \-        Rel-10    F         Correction of MTC User shall in 7.2.8                                                                                                               10.0.0    10.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102258     22.368     0023     1         Rel-10    F         Simplification of Mobile Originated Only feature                                                                                                    10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102259     22.368     0024     1         Rel-10    F         Simplification of Infrequent Mobile Terminated feature                                                                                              10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102260     22.368     0025     1         Rel-10    F         Clarification of MTC Monitoring feature                                                                                                             10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102264     22.368     0029     1         Rel-10    F         Clarification of Group Based MTC Features                                                                                                           10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102280     22.368     0038     2         Rel-10    F         Clarification of subscription                                                                                                                       10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102281     22.368     0018     2         Rel-10    F         Clarification on MTC Server relationship to network operator                                                                                        10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102282     22.368     0027     2         Rel-10    F         Clarification of Location Specific Trigger                                                                                                          10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102287     22.368     0034     1         Rel-10    F         MTC Group Features definition clarification                                                                                                         10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102288     22.368     0035     1         Rel-10    F         MTC Infrequent Transmission clarification                                                                                                           10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102289     22.368     0036     1         Rel-10    F         MTC Secure Connection                                                                                                                               10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-49          SP-100579     S1-102290     22.368     0037     2         Rel-10    F         MTC Time Controlled clarification                                                                                                                   10.1.0    10.2.0    NIMTC
  SP-50          SP-100798     S1-103312     22.368     0049     2         Rel-10    F         NIMTC Terminology                                                                                                                                   10.2.0    10.3.0    NIMTC
  SP-50          SP-100798     S1-103311     22.368     0051     2         Rel-10    B         Clarification of data delay in case of Overload                                                                                                     10.2.0    10.3.0    NIMTC
  SP-50          SP-100801     S1-103209     22.368     0045     1         Rel-11    C         Clarification on the requirements of Low Mobility MTC Feature                                                                                       10.2.0    11.0.0    SIMTC
  \-                                                                                           LTE logo changed into LTE Advanced logo                                                                                                             11.0.0    11.0.1    \-
  SP-51          SP-110162     S1-110427     22.368     0069     2         Rel-11    A         MTC charging requirements in Rel-11                                                                                                                 11.0.1    11.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-51          SP-110162     S1-110411     22.368     0071     \-        Rel-11    A         Clarification of EAB                                                                                                                                11.0.1    11.1.0    NIMTC
  SP-51          SP-110167     S1-110429     22.368     0058     3         Rel-11    B         Additional security for MTC Triggering requirements                                                                                                 11.0.1    11.1.0    SIMTC
  SP-51          SP-110167     S1-110414     22.368     0059     2         Rel-11    B         Suppress MTC device triggering                                                                                                                      11.0.1    11.1.0    SIMTC
  SP-51          SP-110167     S1-110420     22.368     0080     2         Rel-11    B         MTC - IMS Service Layer Capabilities                                                                                                                11.0.1    11.1.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111026     22.368     0075     \-        Rel-11    F         Correction of charging requirements                                                                                                                 11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111036     22.368     0072     \-        Rel-11    B         MTC - IMS Service Layer Capabilities                                                                                                                11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111304     22.368     0091     \-        Rel-11    F         Clarification of MTC Device management requirement                                                                                                  11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111328     22.368     0088     1         Rel-11    F         Clarification of MTC identifier to aligning it with MTC Group feature                                                                               11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111329     22.368     0083     2         Rel-11    B         New Requirements for MTC Monitoring Feature                                                                                                         11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111373     22.368     0092     2         Rel-11    A         Correction of SIMTC requirements to define the precedence for NAS configuration parameters in case they are defined in the device and in the USIM   11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111374     22.368     0078     2         Rel-11    C         MTC Device Trigger and Time Controlled MTC Feature                                                                                                  11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111375     22.368     0081     3         Rel-11    F         Clarification on MTC User                                                                                                                           11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111377     22.368     0089     2         Rel-11    F         Clarification of requirements for MTC                                                                                                               11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-52          SP-110374     S1-111379     22.368     0079     3         Rel-11    C         Introduction of new scenarios for IP addressing                                                                                                     11.1.0    11.2.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110578     S1-112334     22.368     0095     3         Rel-11    F         Clarification to small data transmissions requirement                                                                                               11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110578     S1-112335     22.368     0103     2         Rel-11    C         Clarification of MTC Small Data                                                                                                                     11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110578     S1-112336     22.368     0101     1         Rel-11    B         Location Monitoring Requirement for MTC Monitoring Feature                                                                                          11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110578     S1-112337     22.368     0096     2         Rel-11    F         Correction of offline MTC Device Triggering                                                                                                         11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110578     S1-112338     22.368     0108     1         Rel-11    D         Editorial CR on offline MTC Devices                                                                                                                 11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110578     S1-112339     22.368     0098     2         Rel-11    C         MTC Group-Based Addressing                                                                                                                          11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110578     S1-112412     22.368     0099     3         Rel-11    F         MTC Small Data Transmissions                                                                                                                        11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110651     S1-112169     22.368     0106     2         Rel-11    F         CR to 22.368 - Moving \"Network provided destination for uplink data\" requirement from 22.368 into 22.101                                          11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-53          SP-110651     S1-112171     22.368     0107     2         Rel-11    F         CR to 22.368 - Moving PS-Only requirements from 22.368 into 22.101                                                                                  11.2.0    11.3.0    SIMTC
  SP-55          SP-120103     S1-120334     22.368     0120     3         Rel-11    F         Security to MTC server and MTC application                                                                                                          11.3.0    11.4.0    SIMTC
  SP-56          SP-120289     S1-121376     22.368     0126     1         Rel-11    F         Clarify restricting use of a USIM to specific MEs/MTC Devices                                                                                       11.4.0    11.5.0    SIMTC
  SP-56          SP-120289     S1-121447     22.368     0128     4         Rel-11    F         MTC Server Definition                                                                                                                               11.4.0    11.5.0    SIMTC
  SP-56          SP-120288     S1-121457     22.368     0130     5         Rel-11    F         MTC Device Power Level Monitoring                                                                                                                   11.4.0    11.5.0    TEI11
  SP-56          SP-120289     S1-121458     22.368     0131     4         Rel-11    F         Connection Error Codes for Troubleshooting Requirement                                                                                              11.4.0    11.5.0    SIMTC
  SP-57          SP-120524     S1-122513     22.368     0133     2         Rel-12    F         Clarification of MTC Charging Requirements wrt on line/off line                                                                                     11.5.0    12.0.0    MTCe-SRM
  SP-57          SP-120533     S1-122516     22.368     0127     7         Rel-12    C         External identifier availability                                                                                                                    11.5.0    12.0.0    MTCe-SIMSE
  SP-57          SP-120533     S1-122435     22.368     0132     1         Rel-12    B         MTC Device and MTC Server relation with Service Enablement Frameworks                                                                               11.5.0    12.0.0    MTCe-SIMSE
  SP-58          SP-120868     S1-124465     22.368     0144     \-        Rel-12    C         Removal of requirement to be able to count for device initiated signalling                                                                          12.0.0    12.1.0    MTCe-SRM
  SP-58          SP-120868     S1-124489     22.368     0139     2         Rel-12    C         Clean-up of Location specific trigger Requirement                                                                                                   12.0.0    12.1.0    MTCe-SRM
  SP-58          SP-120868     S1-124512     22.368     0145     2         Rel-12    C         Moving MTC Feature Infrequent Transmission into a generic requirement                                                                               12.0.0    12.1.0    MTCe-SRM
  SP-58          SP-120868     S1-124488     22.368     0136     2         Rel-12    C         Clean-up of Time Tolerant Requirement                                                                                                               12.0.0    12.1.0    MTCe-SRM
  SP-59          SP-130104     S1-131289     22.368     0146     2         Rel-12    C         Clarification and merge of Mobile Originated Only and Infrequent Mobile Terminated                                                                  12.1.0    12.2.0    MTCe-SRM
  SP-59          SP-130104     S1-131290     22.368     0147     2         Rel-12    C         Moving MTC Priority Alarm into a generic requirement                                                                                                12.1.0    12.2.0    MTCe-SRM
  SP-59          SP-130109     S1-131302     22.368     0148     2         Rel-12    D         Clarification of requirements for the support of multiple service enablement frameworks                                                             12.1.0    12.2.0    MTCe-SIMSE
  SP-62          SP-130593     S1-135102     22.368     0151     \-        Rel-12    F         Removal of group based charging requirements                                                                                                        12.2.0    12.3.0    MTCe-SRM
  SP-64          \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        \-        Rel.13 version created to keep text applicable to Rel-13 only, removed in the Rel-12 version 12.4.0 by CR0153r1                                     12.3.0    13.0.0    \-
  SP-66          SP-140751     S1-144352     22.368     155      \-        Rel-13    F         Align the MTC monitoring requirements with Service Exposure requirements                                                                            13.0.0    13.1.0    TEI13
  SP-75                                                          \-        Rel-14              Updated to Rel-14 by MCC                                                                                                                            13.1.0    14.0.0    
  Aug. 2017      \-            \-                                \-        Rel-14              Previous version was incorrectly saved as "22638-e10.doc" instead of "22368-e00.doc"                                                                14.0.0    14.0.1    \-
  July 2019      \-            \-            \-         \-       \-        Rel-15              Updated to Rel-15 by MCC                                                                                                                            14.0.1    15.0.0    
  -------------- ------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ------------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                    
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**        **New version**
  2020-07              SA\#88e       \-         \-       \-        \-        Updated to Rel-16 by MCC   16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------- -----------------
