Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies and establishes the characteristics of
the physicals layer procedures in the FDD and TDD modes of E-UTRA.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.201: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Physical Layer -- General Description\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Physical channels and modulation\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 36.212: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Multiplexing and channel coding\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Physical layer -- Measurements\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 36.321, \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 36.423, \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); X2 Application Protocol (X2AP)\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 36.133, \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Requirements for support of radio resource management\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 36.331, \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 37.213: \"Physical layer procedures for shared spectrum
channel access\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\"

\[16\] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NR; Requirements for support of radio resource
management\"

\[17\] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\"

3 Symbols and abbreviations
===========================

3.1 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

System frame number as defined in \[3\]

Slot number within a radio frame as defined in \[3\]

Number of configured cells

Downlink bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of as defined in
\[3\]

Uplink bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of as defined in
\[3\]

Number of SC-FDMA symbols in an uplink slot as defined in \[3\]

Resource block size in the frequency domain, expressed as a number of
subcarriers as defined in \[3\]

Basic time unit as defined in \[3\]

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply.\
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

ACK Acknowledgement

AUL Autonomous Uplink

AUL-DFI AUL downlink feedback information

BCH Broadcast Channel

CCE Control Channel Element

CDD Cyclic Delay Diversity

CG Cell Group

CIF Carrier Indicator Field

CQI Channel Quality Indicator

CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check

CRI CSI-RS Resource Indicator

CSI Channel State Information

CSI-IM CSI-interference measurement

DAI Downlink Assignment Index

DC Dual Connectivity

DCI Downlink Control Information

DL Downlink

DL-SCH Downlink Shared Channel

DTX Discontinuous Transmission

EDT Early Data Transmission

EN-DC E-UTRA NR Dual Connectivity with MCG using E-UTRA and SCG using NR

EPDCCH Enhanced Physical Downlink Control Channel

EPRE Energy Per Resource Element

MCG Master Cell Group

MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme

NACK Negative Acknowledgement

NE-DC NR E-UTRA Dual Connectivity with MCG using NR and SCG using E-UTRA

NPBCH Narrowband Physical Broadcast CHannel

NPDCCH Narrowband Physical Downlink Control CHannel

NPDSCH Narrowband Physical Downlink Shared CHannel

NPRACH Narrowband Physical Random Access CHannel

NPUSCH Narrowband Physical Uplink Shared CHannel

NPSS Narrowband Primary Synchronization Signal

NSSS Narrowband Secondary Synchronization Signal

NRS Narrowband Reference Signal

PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel

PCFICH Physical Control Format Indicator Channel

PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel

PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel

PHICH Physical Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel

PMCH Physical Multicast Channel

PMI Precoding Matrix Indicator

PRACH Physical Random Access Channel

PRS Positioning Reference Signal

PRB Physical Resource Block

PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast Channel

PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control Channel

PSCell Primary Secondary cell

PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery Channel

PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared Channel

PSSS Primary Sidelink Synchronisation Signal

PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel

PUCCH-SCell PUCCH SCell

PUR Preconfigured Uplink Resource

PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel

PTI Precoding Type Indicator

RBG Resource Block Group

RE Resource Element

RI Rank Indication

RS Reference Signal

RSS Resynchronization Signal

SCG Secondary Cell Group

SINR Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio

SPS C-RNTI Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI

SR Scheduling Request

SRS Sounding Reference Symbol

SSSS Secondary Sidelink Synchronisation Signal

TAG Timing Advance Group

TBS Transport Block Size

UCI Uplink Control Information

UE User Equipment

UL Uplink

UL-SCH Uplink Shared Channel

VRB Virtual Resource Block

 4 Synchronization procedures
============================

4.1 Cell search
---------------

Cell search is the procedure by which a UE acquires time and frequency
synchronization with a cell and detects the physical layer Cell ID of
that cell. E-UTRA cell search supports a scalable overall transmission
bandwidth corresponding to 6 resource blocks and upwards.

The following signals are transmitted in the downlink to facilitate cell
search: the primary and secondary synchronization signals.

A UE may assume the antenna ports 0 -- 3 and the antenna port for the
primary/secondary synchronization signals of a serving cell are quasi
co-located (as defined in \[3\]) with respect to Doppler shift and
average delay.

For a BL/CE UE, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*RSS-Config*, the UE can use the resynchronization signal (as defined in
\[3\]) to re-acquire time and frequency synchronization with the cell.

4.2 Timing synchronization
--------------------------

### 4.2.1 Radio link monitoring

The downlink radio link quality of the primary cell shall be monitored
by the UE for the purpose of indicating out-of-sync/in-sync status to
higher layers.

If the UE is configured with a SCG \[11\] and the parameter
*rlf-TimersAndConstantsSCG* is provided by the higher layers and is not
set to release, the downlink radio link quality of the PSCell \[11\] of
the SCG shall be monitored by the UE for the purpose of indicating
out-of-sync/in-sync status to higher layers.

In non-DRX mode operation, the physical layer in the UE shall every
radio frame assess the radio link quality, evaluated over the previous
time period defined in \[10\], against thresholds (Q~out~ and Q~in~)
defined by relevant tests in \[10\].

In DRX mode operation, the physical layer in the UE shall at least once
every DRX period assess the radio link quality, evaluated over the
previous time period defined in \[10\], against thresholds (Q~out~ and
Q~in~) defined by relevant tests in \[10\].

If higher-layer signalling indicates certain subframes for restricted
radio link monitoring, the radio link quality shall not be monitored in
any subframe other than those indicated.

The physical layer in the UE shall in radio frames where the radio link
quality is assessed indicate out-of-sync to higher layers when the radio
link quality is worse than the threshold Q~out~. When the radio link
quality is better than the threshold Q~in~, the physical layer in the UE
shall in radio frames where the radio link quality is assessed indicate
in-sync to higher layers.

### 4.2.2 Inter-cell synchronization

No functionality is specified in this clause in this release.

### 4.2.3 Transmission timing adjustments

Upon reception of a timing advance command or a timing adjustment
indication for a TAG containing the primary cell or PSCell, the UE shall
adjust uplink transmission timing for PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS of the primary
cell or PSCell based on the received timing advance command or a timing
adjustment indication.

The UL transmission timing for PUSCH/SRS of a secondary cell is the same
as the primary cell if the secondary cell and the primary cell belong to
the same TAG. If the primary cell in a TAG has a frame structure type 1
and a secondary cell in the same TAG has a frame structure type 2 or
frame structure 3, UE may assume that *N~TA~* ≥ 624.

If the UE is configured with a SCG, the UL transmission timing for
PUSCH/SRS of a secondary cell other than the PSCell is the same as the
PSCell if the secondary cell and the PSCell belong to the same TAG.

Upon reception of a timing advance command or a timing adjustment
indication for a TAG not containing the primary cell or PSCell, if all
the serving cells in the TAG have the same frame structure type, the UE
shall adjust uplink transmission timing for PUSCH/SRS of all the
secondary cells in the TAG based on the received timing advance command
or a timing adjustment indication where the UL transmission timing for
PUSCH /SRS is the same for all the secondary cells in the TAG.

Upon reception of a timing advance command or a timing adjustment
indication for a TAG not containing the primary cell or PSCell, if a
serving cell in the TAG has a different frame structure type compared to
the frame structure type of another serving cell in the same TAG, the UE
shall adjust uplink transmission timing for PUSCH/SRS of all the
secondary cells in the TAG by using *N~TAoffset~* = 624 regardless of
the frame structure type of the serving cells and based on the received
timing advance command or a timing adjustment indication where the UL
transmission timing for PUSCH /SRS is the same for all the secondary
cells in the TAG. *N~TAoffset~* is described in \[3\].

The timing adjustment indication specified in \[11\] indicates the
initial *N~TA~* used for a TAG.The timing advance command for a TAG
indicates the change of the uplink timing relative to the current uplink
timing for the TAG as multiples of 16. The start timing of the random
access preamble is specified in \[3\].

In case of random access response, an 11-bit timing advance command
\[8\], *T~A~*, for a TAG indicates *N~TA~* values by index values of
*T~A~* = 0, 1, 2, \..., 256 if the UE is configured with a SCG, and
*T~A~* = 0, 1, 2, \..., 1282 otherwise, where an amount of the time
alignment for the TAG is given by *N~TA~* = *T~A~* ×16. *N~TA\ ~*is
defined in \[3\].

In other cases, a 6-bit timing advance command \[8\] or the Timing
advance adjustment field in DCI format 6-0A/B if present \[4\], *T~A~*,
for a TAG indicates adjustment of the current *N~TA~* value,
*N~TA,old~*, to the new *N~TA~* value, *N~TA,new~*, by index values of
*T~A~* = 0, 1, 2,\..., 63, where *N~TA,new~* = *N~TA,old~* + (*T~A~*
−31)×16. Here, adjustment of *N~TA~* value by a positive or a negative
amount indicates advancing or delaying the uplink transmission timing
for the TAG by a given amount respectively.

For a non-BL/CE UE, for a timing advance command received on

\- subframe *n*, the corresponding adjustment of the uplink transmission
timing shall apply from the beginning of subframe *n+*5 if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and the
corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific
search space, *n+6* otherwise.

\- slot *n*, the corresponding adjustment of the uplink transmission
timing shall apply from the first subframe boundary no earlier than slot
*\[n+8\].*

\- subslot *n*, the corresponding adjustment of the uplink transmission
timing shall apply from the first subframe boundary no earlier than

\- subslot *\[n+16\]* if higher layer parameter *proc-TimeAdv-r15*=
\'*nplus4set1*\'*.*

\- subslot *\[n+18\]* if higher layer parameter *proc-TimeAdv-r15*=
\'*nplus6set1*\'or \'*nplus6set2*\'*.*

\- subslot *\[n+20\]* if higher layer parameter *proc-TimeAdv-r15*=
\'*nplus8set2*\'*.*

For serving cells in the same TAG, when the UE\'s uplink PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS
transmissions in subframe *n* and subframe *n*+1 are overlapped due to
the timing adjustment, the UE shall complete transmission of subframe
*n* and not transmit the overlapped part of subframe *n*+1.

*For a BL/CE UE, for a timing advance command received on subframe n,
the corresponding adjustment of the uplink transmission timing shall
apply for the uplink PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS transmissions in subframe n+6.*
When the BL/CE UE\'s uplink PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS transmissions in subframe
*n* and subframe *n*+1 are on the same narrowband and are overlapped due
to the timing adjustment, the UE shall complete transmission of subframe
*n* and is not required to transmit in subframe *n+1* until the first
available symbol that has no overlapping portion with subframe *n*. When
the BL/CE UE\'s uplink PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS transmissions in subframe *n* and
subframe *n*+1 are on different narrowbands, and the timing adjustment
occurs in the guard period for narrowband retuning, the UE is not
required to transmit in subframe *n+1* until the first available symbol
that has no overlapping portion with subframe *n* and which does not
reduce the guard period.

If the received downlink timing changes and is not compensated or is
only partly compensated by the uplink timing adjustment without timing
advance command as specified in \[10\], the UE changes *N~TA~*
accordingly.

4.3 Timing for Secondary Cell Activation / Deactivation
-------------------------------------------------------

When a UE receives an activation command \[8\] for a secondary cell in
subframe *n*, the corresponding actions in \[8\] shall be applied no
later than the minimum requirement defined in \[10\] and no earlier than
subframe n+8, except for the following:

\- the actions related to CSI reporting on a serving cell which is
active in subframe n+8

\- the actions related to the *sCellDeactivationTimer* associated with
the secondary cell \[8\]

which shall be applied in subframe *n+8*.

\- the actions related to CSI reporting on a serving cell which is not
active in subframe n+8

which shall be applied in the earliest subframe after n+8 in which the
serving cell is active.

When a UE receives an RRC configuration which configures secondary cell
as activated \[11\] in subframe *n*, the corresponding actions in \[8\]
shall be applied no later than the minimum requirement defined in \[10\]
and no earlier than subframe *n+20*, except for the following:

\- the actions related to CSI reporting on a serving cell which is
active in subframe *n+20*

\- the actions related to the *sCellDeactivationTimer* associated with
the secondary cell \[8\]

which shall be applied in subframe *n+20*.

\- the actions related to CSI reporting on a serving cell which is not
active in subframe *n+20*

which shall be applied in the earliest subframe after *n+20* in which
the serving cell is active.

If a UE has been configured with *cqi-ShortPeriodicSCell* for a
secondary cell, parameters *cqi-pmi-ConfigIndex* and *ri-ConfigIndex* in
clause 7.2 are given by *cqi-ShortPeriodicSCell* from subframe *n*+8
until subframe *n*+34.

When a UE receives a deactivation command \[8\] for a secondary cell *or
the sCellDeactivationTimer associated with the secondary cell expires*
in subframe *n*, the corresponding actions in \[8\] shall apply no later
than the minimum requirement defined in \[10\]*, except* for the actions
related to CSI reporting on a serving cell which is active which shall
be applied in subframe *n+8.*

 5 Power control
===============

Downlink power control determines the Energy Per Resource Element
(EPRE). The term resource element energy denotes the energy prior to CP
insertion. The term resource element energy also denotes the average
energy taken over all constellation points for the modulation scheme
applied. Uplink power control determines the average power over a
SC-FDMA symbol in which the physical channel is transmitted.

5.1 Uplink power control
------------------------

If the UE is configured with *shortTTI*, PUCCH in this clause refers to
SPUCCH defined in \[3\] if the HARQ-ACK is sent in response to PDSCH
scheduled by DCI format 7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G or if the scheduling
request is sent on resources configured by higher layer parameter
*sr-SlotSPUCCH-IndexFH or sr-SlotSPUCCH-IndexNoFH or
sr-subSlotSPUCCH-Resource* for slot/subslot-based transmissions, unless
otherwise noted.

If the UE is not configured with *shortTTI* or the UE is configured with
*shortTTI*, and UCI is to be transmitted in a subframe, the term
\'subframe/slot/subslot\' or \'subframe/slot\' refers to a subframe in
this clause.

If the UE is configured with *shortTTI*, and UCI is to be transmitted in
a slot, the term \'subframe/slot/subslot\' or \'slot/subslot\' or
\'subframe/slot\' refers to a slot in this clause.

If the UE is configured with *shortTTI*, and UCI is to be transmitted in
a subslot, the term \'subframe/slot/subslot\' or \'slot/subslot\' refers
to a subslot in this clause.

Throughout this clause,

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space,
![](media/image10.wmf){width="0.3958333333333333in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}, otherwise
![](media/image11.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}.

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and
the corresponding PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G is detected in a subslot, if the UE
is configured for subslot uplink transmissions, is given by higher layer
parameter *proc-TimeAdv* from , otherwise.

Uplink power control controls the transmit power of the different uplink
physical channels.

If a UE is configured with a LAA SCell for uplink transmissions, the UE
shall apply the procedures described for PUSCH and SRS in this clause
assuming frame structure type 1 for the LAA SCell unless stated
otherwise.

**For a UE configured with EN-DC/NE-DC and serving cell frame structure
type 1,** if the UE is configured with
*tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the serving cell, the UE
is not expected to transmit any uplink physical channel or signal in the
serving cell on subframes other than offset-UL subframes, where the
offset-UL subframes are determined by applying an offset value given by
***harq-Offset-r15*** to the subframes denoted as uplink in the UL/DL
configuration *tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC*.

For a UE configured with EN-DC with primary cell frame structure type 1,
if the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2* for a serving cell,
and if the UE indicates a capability *fdd-PCellUL-TX-AllUL-Subframe-r16*
(as specified in \[11\]), the UE transmits any uplink physical channel
or signal without associated DCI if configured, in the serving
cell on any uplink subframes. Otherwise, if the UE is configured with
*tdm-PatternConfig2* for the serving cell and if the UE does not
indicate a capability *fdd-PCellUL-TX-AllUL-Subframe-r16*, the UE is not
expected to transmit any uplink physical channel or signal
without associated DCI except for PRACH in the serving cell on subframes
other than offset-UL subframes, where the offset-UL subframes are
determined by applying an offset value given by *harq-Offset-r16* to the
subframes denoted as uplink in the UL/DL configuration
*tdm-PatternConfig2*.

For a UE configured with EN-DC with primary cell frame structure type
2, if the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2* for a serving cell,
and if the UE indicates a
capability *tdd-PCellUL-TX-AllUL-Subframe-r16* (as specified in \[11\]),
the UE transmits any uplink physical channel or signal without
associated DCI if configured, in the serving
cell on any uplink subframes. Otherwise, if the UE is configured with
*tdm-PatternConfig2* for the serving cell and if the UE does not
indicate a capability *tdd-PCellUL-TX-AllUL-Subframe-r16*, the UE is not
expected to transmit any uplink physical channel or signal
without associated DCI except for PRACH in the serving cell on subframes
other than offset-UL subframes, where the offset-UL subframes are
determined by applying an offset value given by *harq-Offset-r16* to the
subframes denoted as uplink in the UL/DL configuration
*tdm-PatternConfig2*.

For PUSCH, the transmit power  defined in Clause 5.1.1, is first scaled
by the ratio of the number of antennas ports with a non-zero PUSCH
transmission to the number of configured antenna ports for the
transmission scheme. The resulting scaled power is then split equally
across the antenna ports on which the non-zero PUSCH is transmitted.

For PUCCH or SRS, the transmit power , defined in Clause 5.1.1.1, or is
split equally across the configured antenna ports for PUCCH or SRS. is
the linear value ofdefined in Clause 5.1.3.

A cell wide overload indicator (OI) and a High Interference Indicator
(HII) to control UL interference are defined in \[9\].

For a serving cell with frame structure type 1, a UE is not expected to
be configured with *UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0*.

### 5.1.1 Physical uplink shared channel

If the UE is configured with a SCG, the UE shall apply the procedures
described in this clause for both MCG and SCG

\- When the procedures are applied for MCG, the terms \'secondary
cell\', \'secondary cells\' , \'serving cell\', \'serving cells\' in
this clause refer to secondary cell, secondary cells, serving cell,
serving cells belonging to the MCG respectively.

\- When the procedures are applied for SCG, the terms \'secondary
cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\', \'serving cells\' in this
clause refer to secondary cell, secondary cells (not including PSCell),
serving cell, serving cells belonging to the SCG respectively. The term
\'primary cell\' in this clause refers to the PSCell of the SCG.

If the UE is configured with a PUCCH-SCell, the UE shall apply the
procedures described in this clause for both primary PUCCH group and
secondary PUCCH group

\- When the procedures are applied for primary PUCCH group, the terms
\'secondary cell\', \'secondary cells\' , \'serving cell\', \'serving
cells\' in this clause refer to secondary cell, secondary cells, serving
cell, serving cells belonging to the primary PUCCH group respectively.

\- When the procedures are applied for secondary PUCCH group, the terms
\'secondary cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\', \'serving
cells\' in this clause refer to secondary cell, secondary cells, serving
cell, serving cells belonging to the secondary PUCCH group respectively.

For PUSCH (re)transmissions corresponding to *ul-ConfigInfo-r14*, the UE
shall apply the procedures corresponding to PUSCH (re)transmission
corresponding to the random access response grant.

#### 5.1.1.1 UE behaviour

The setting of the UE Transmit power for a Physical Uplink Shared
Channel (PUSCH) transmission is defined as follows.

If the UE transmits PUSCH without a simultaneous PUCCH for the serving
cell , then the UE transmit power for PUSCH transmission in
subframe/slot/subslot *i* for the serving cell is given by

\[dBm\]

If the UE transmits PUSCH simultaneous with PUCCH for the serving cell ,
then the UE transmit power for the PUSCH transmission in
subframe/slot/subslot *i* for the serving cell is given by

\[dBm\]

If the UE is not transmitting PUSCH for the serving cell c, for the
accumulation of TPC command received with DCI format 3/3A for PUSCH, the
UE shall assume that the UE transmit power for the PUSCH transmission in
subframe *i* for the serving cell is computed by

\[dBm\]

where,

\- is the configured UE transmit power defined in \[6\] in
subframe/slot/subslot *i* for serving cell and is the linear value of .
If the UE transmits PUCCH without PUSCH in subframe for the serving cell
c, for the accumulation of TPC command received with DCI format 3/3A for
PUSCH, the UE shall assume as given by Clause 5.1.2.1. If the UE does
not transmit PUCCH and PUSCH in subframe for the serving cell c, for the
accumulation of TPC command received with DCI format 3/3A for PUSCH, the
UE shall compute assuming MPR=0dB, A-MPR=0dB, P-MPR=0dB and ∆T~C~ =0dB,
where MPR, A-MPR, P-MPR and ∆T~C~ are defined in \[6\].

\- is the linear value of defined in Clause 5.1.2.1

\- If the UE is a BL/CE UE configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PUSCH-SubPRB-Config-r15*, and the PUSCH resource assignment valid
for subframe *i* and serving cell is using uplink resource allocation
type 5, is the bandwidth of the PUSCH resource assignment expressed in
fraction of a resource block and is given by where are defined in \[3\]
and is defined in Clause 8.6.1 for subframe *i,* is the bandwidth of the
PUSCH resource assignment expressed in number of resource blocks valid
for subframe/slot/subslot *i* and serving cell otherwise.

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell and if subframe
belongs to uplink power control subframe set 2 as indicated by the
higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12*,

\- when j=0, , where j=0 is used for PUSCH (re)transmissions
corresponding to a semi-persistent grant. and are the parameters
*p0-UE-PUSCH-Persistent-SubframeSet2-r12 and*
*p0-NominalPUSCH-Persistent -SubframeSet2-r12* respectively provided by
higher layers, for each serving cell .

\- when j=1,, where j=1 is used for PUSCH (re)transmissions
corresponding to a dynamic scheduled grant. and are the parameters
*p0-UE-PUSCH-SubframeSet2-r12 and p0-NominalPUSCH-SubframeSet2-r12*
respectively, provided by higher layers for serving cell *.*

\- when j=2, where and , where the parameter
*preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* \[8\] () and are signalled from
higher layers for serving cell , where j=2 is used for PUSCH
(re)transmissions corresponding to the random access response grant.

Otherwise

\- is a parameter composed of the sum of a component provided from
higher layers for *j=0,* *1* and *3* and a component provided by higher
layers for *j=0,* *1* and *3* for serving cell . For PUSCH
(re)transmissions corresponding to a semi-persistent grant then *j=0* ,
for PUSCH (re)transmissions corresponding to a dynamic scheduled grant
then *j=1,* for PUSCH (re)transmissions corresponding to the random
access response grant then *j=2* and for BL/CE UE PUSCH (re)transmission
using preconfigured uplink resource then *j=3*. and , where the
parameter *preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* \[8\] () and are
signalled from higher layers for serving cell .

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell and if subframe
belongs to uplink power control subframe set 2 as indicated by the
higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12*,

\- For *j*=0 or 1, . is the parameter *alpha-SubframeSet2-r12* provided
by higher layers for each serving cell .

\- For *j*=2, .

\- Else if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v15x0* for serving cell *c*,

\- For *j*=0 or 1, . is the parameter *alpha-UE-r15* provided by higher
layers for each serving cell .

\- For *j*=2, .

Otherwise

\- For *j* =0 or *1*, is a 3-bit parameter provided by higher layers for
serving cell . For *j*=2, For *j*=*3*, is the parameter
*pur-PUSCH-power-control-alpha* provided by higher layers for serving
cell .

\- is the downlink path loss estimate calculated in the UE for serving
cell in dB and = *referenceSignalPower* -- higher layer filtered RSRP,
where *referenceSignalPower* is provided by higher layers and RSRP is
defined in \[5\] for the reference serving cell and the higher layer
filter configuration is defined in \[11\] for the reference serving
cell.

\- If serving cell belongs to a TAG containing the primary cell then,
for the uplink of the primary cell, the primary cell is used as the
reference serving cell for determining *referenceSignalPower* and higher
layer filtered RSRP. For the uplink of the secondary cell, the serving
cell configured by the higher layer parameter *pathlossReferenceLinking*
defined in \[11\] is used as the reference serving cell for determining
*referenceSignalPower* and higher layer filtered RSRP.

\- If serving cell belongs to a TAG containing the PSCell then, for the
uplink of the PSCell, the PSCell is used as the reference serving cell
for determining *referenceSignalPower* and higher layer filtered RSRP;
for the uplink of the secondary cell other than PSCell, the serving cell
configured by the higher layer parameter *pathlossReferenceLinking*
defined in \[11\] is used as the reference serving cell for determining
*referenceSignalPower* and higher layer filtered RSRP.

\- If serving cell belongs to a TAG not containing the primary cell or
PSCell then serving cell is used as the reference serving cell for
determining *referenceSignalPower* and higher layer filtered RSRP.

\- for and 0 for where is given by the parameter *deltaMCS-Enabled*
provided by higher layers for each serving cell . and , for each serving
cell , are computed as below. for transmission mode 2.

\- for control data sent via subframe-PUSCH without UL-SCH data or
slot/sublot-PUSCH without UL-SCH data if the UE is configured with a
higher layer parameter *uplinkPower-CSIPayload,* and withdefined as the
number of CQI/PMI bits including CRC for a given RI value for
slot/subslot-PUSCH without UL-SCH data if the UE is not configured with
a higher layer parameter *uplinkPower-CSIPayload*, and *BPRE=* for other
cases.

\- where is the number of code blocks, is the size for code block , is
the number of CQI/PMI bits including CRC bits and is the number of
resource elements determined as , where , , and are defined in \[4\].

\- for control data sent via PUSCH without UL-SCH data and for other
cases.

\- is a correction value, also referred to as a TPC command and is
included in PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B or in
PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B or in MPDCCH with DCI format 6-0A
for serving cell or jointly coded with other TPC commands in
PDCCH/MPDCCH with DCI format 3/3A whose CRC parity bits are scrambled
with TPC-PUSCH-RNTI. If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell and if subframe
belongs to uplink power control subframe set 2 as indicated by the
higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12,* the current PUSCH power
control adjustment state for serving cell is given by, and the UE shall
use instead of to determine . Otherwise, the current PUSCH power control
adjustment state for serving cell is given by. If the UE is configured
with multiple UL SPS configurations,
![](media/image87.wmf){width="0.5534722222222223in" height="0.25in"} is
a correction value, also referred to as a TPC command and is jointly
coded with other TPC commands in PDCCH with DCI format 3/3A whose CRC
parity bits are scrambled with TPC-PUSCH-RNTI, where x is
*SPS-ConfigIndex-r14*, and
![](media/image88.wmf){width="0.45208333333333334in"
height="0.27361111111111114in"} and
![](media/image89.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} are replaced by
![](media/image90.wmf){width="0.5298611111111111in"
height="0.27361111111111114in"} and
![](media/image91.wmf){width="0.44027777777777777in"
height="0.26180555555555557in"}, respectively.

\- and if accumulation is enabled based on the parameter
*Accumulation-enabled* or *accumulationEnabledsTTI* provided by higher
layers or if the TPC command  is included in a PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI
format 0 or in a MPDCCH with DCI format 6-0A for serving cell where the
CRC is scrambled by the Temporary C-RNTI or PUR-RNTI

\- ![](media/image95.wmf){width="2.6368055555555556in"
height="0.25625in"} and
![](media/image96.wmf){width="2.446527777777778in"
height="0.23194444444444445in"} if accumulation is enabled based on the
parameter *Accumulation-enabled* or *accumulationEnabledsTTI* provided
by higher layers and if the TPC command
![](media/image87.wmf){width="0.5534722222222223in" height="0.25in"} is
included in a PDCCH with DCI format 3/3A whose CRC parity bits are
scrambled by TPC-PUSCH-RNTI and if the UE is configured with multiple UL
SPS configurations.

\- where was signalled on PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B or PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B or MPDCCH
with DCI format 6-0A or PDCCH/MPDCCH with DCI format 3/3A on
subframe/slot/subslot , and where is the first value after reset of
accumulation. For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, subframe is the
last subframe in which the MPDCCH with DCI format 6-0A or MPDCCH with
DCI format 3/3A is transmitted.

\- The value of is

\- For FDD or FDD-TDD and serving cell frame structure type 1

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and
the TPC command ![](media/image101.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-0A/7-0B and for PUSCH transmissions in a subslot,

\- the UE is configured with higher layer parameters
*dl-STTI-Length=\'subslot\'* and *ul-STTI-Length=\'slot\'* and the TPC
command ![](media/image101.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-0A/7-0B and for PUSCH transmissions in a slot, corresponds to:

> \- a subslot among subslot *4* or *5* of subframe *N-3* or subslot *0*
> of subframe *N-2* in which the UE has received the TPC command if the
> slot PUSCH is to be transmitted in slot *0* of subframe *N*. A UE is
> not expected to receive TPC command in more than one subslot among
> subslot *4* or *5* of subframe *N-3* or subslot *0* of subframe *N-2*
> corresponding to slot-PUSCH transmission in slot *0* of subframe *N*.
>
> \- a subslot among subslot *1* or *2* or *3* of subframe *N-2* in
> which the UE has received the TPC command if the slot-PUSCH is to be
> transmitted in slot *1* of subframe *N*. A UE is not expected to
> receive TPC command in more than one subslot among subslot *1* or *2*
> or *3* of subframe *N-2* corresponding to slot-PUSCH transmission in
> slot *1*of subframe *N*.

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space,

\- otherwise, = 4 (in unit of slots for slot-PUSCH and the TPC
command![](media/image101.wmf){width="0.5076388888888889in"
height="0.25763888888888886in"} is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-0A/7-0B, and in units of subframe for subframe-PUSCH and for
slot/subslot-PUSCH with a TPC
command![](media/image105.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.23472222222222222in"}provided in the PDCCH with DCI format
3/3A).

\- For TDD, if the UE is configured with more than one serving cell and
the TDD UL/DL configuration of at least two configured serving cells is
not the same, or if the UE is configured with the parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for at least one serving cell, or for
FDD-TDD and serving cell frame structure type 2, the \"TDD UL/DL
configuration\" refers to the UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined
in Clause 8.0) for serving cell .

\- For TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6 and UE not configured with higher
layer parameter *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* for the serving cell , is given

\- in Table 5.1.1.1-1A if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for
subframe-PUSCH transmissions,

\- in Table 5.1.1.1-1B for special subframe configuration 1, 2, 3, 4, 6,
7, 8 and Table 5.1.1.1-1C for special subframe configuration 0, 5, 9 if
the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and the TPC
command ![](media/image101.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-0A/7-0B, and for uplink transmissions in a slot,

\- by if the slot-PUSCH transmission in slot 15 or 16 is scheduled with
a PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B in which the LSB of the UL
index is set to 1 for TDD UL/DL configuration 6 and special subframe
configuration 0, 5, 9,

\- in Table 5.1.1.1-1 otherwise.

\- For TDD UL/DL configuration 0 and UE not configured with higher layer
parameter *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* for the serving cell .

\- If the subframe-PUSCH transmission in subframe *2* or *7* is
scheduled with a PDCCH/EPDCCH of DCI format 0/4 or a MPDCCH of DCI
format 6-0A in which the LSB of the UL index is set to 1, = 7

> \- For slot-PUSCH transmissions, is given by Table 5.1.1.1-1B for
> special subframe configuration 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and Table
> 5.1.1.1-1C for special subframe configuration 0, 5, 9 if the TPC
> command ![](media/image101.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
> height="0.2708333333333333in"} is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI
> format 7-0A/7-0B. If the TPC command
> ![](media/image105.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
> height="0.23472222222222222in"} is provided in the PDCCH with DCI
> format 3/3A, ![](media/image108.wmf){width="0.5in"
> height="0.25763888888888886in"} is given in Table 5.1.1.1-1.

\- For all other subframe-PUSCH transmissions, is given in Table
5.1.1.1-1A if the UE is configured with *shortProcessingTime* and the
corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific
search space, otherwise Table 5.1.1.1-1.

> \- For TDD UL/DL configurations 0-5 and UE configured with higher
> layer parameter *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* for the serving cell ,
> ![](media/image108.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.23958333333333334in"}
> is given in

\- Table 5.1.1.1-4A if the UE is configured with *shortProcessingTime*
and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the
UE-specific search space,

\- Table 5.1.1.1-4B for slot-PUSCH transmissions if the TPC
command ![](media/image101.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-0A/7-0B,

\- Table 5.1.1.1-4 otherwise.

> \- For TDD UL/DL configuration 6 and UE configured with higher layer
> parameter *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* for the serving cell

-   If the subframe-PUSCH transmission in subframe *2* or *7* is
    scheduled with a PDCCH/EPDCCH of DCI format 0/4 if the UE is not
    configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* or if
    the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
    *shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled
    by C-RNTI is in the common search space in which the LSB of the UL
    index is set to 1, = 6

\- For all other PUSCH transmissions, is given in

-   Table 5.1.1.1-4A if the UE is configured with *shortProcessingTime*
    > and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the
    > UE-specific search space,

-   Table 5.1.1.1-4B for slot-PUSCH transmissions if the TPC
    > command ![](media/image101.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
    > height="0.2708333333333333in"} is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with
    > DCI format 7-0A/7-0B,

> \- Table 5.1.1.1-4 otherwise.

\- For a serving cell with frame structure type 3,

\- For an uplink DCI format 0A/4A carrying AUL-DFI according to clause
8.3A, ![](media/image109.wmf){width="0.5166666666666667in"
height="0.25in"}=4.

\- For an uplink DCI format 0A/0B/0C/4A/4B with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI
with PUSCH trigger A set to 0, is equal to *k*+*l*, where *k* and *l*
are defined in in Clause 8.0.

\- For an uplink DCI format 0A/0B/0C/4A/4B with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI
with PUSCH trigger A set to 1 and upon the detection of PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by CC-RNTI and with \'PUSCH trigger B\' field set to \'1\'
described in Clause 8.0, is equal to *p*+*k*+*l*, where *p*, *k* and *l*
are defined in Clause 8.0.

\- If a UE detected multiple TPC commands in subframe , the UE shall use
the TPC command in the PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0A/0B/0C/4A/4B with
CRC scrambled by C-RNTI which schedules PUSCH transmission in subframe
*i*.

\- For serving cell and a non-BL/CE UE, the UE attempts to decode a
PDCCH/EPDCCH of DCI format 0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B or a PDCCH/SPDCCH of DCI
format 7-0A/7-0B with the UE\'s C-RNTI or a PDCCH/EPDCCH of DCI format 0
for SPS C-RNTI or a PDCCH/SPDCCH of DCI format 7-0A/7-0B for SPS C-RNTI
or a PDCCH/EPDCCH of DCI format 0 for UL-SPS-V-RNTI and a PDCCH of DCI
format 3/3A with this UE\'s TPC-PUSCH-RNTI in every subframe except when
in DRX or where serving cell is deactivated.

\- For serving cell and a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, the UE
attempts to decode a MPDCCH of DCI format 6-0A with the UE\'s C-RNTI or
SPS C-RNTI or PUR-RNTI and a MPDCCH of DCI format 3/3A with this UE\'s
TPC-PUSCH-RNTI in every BL/CE downlink subframe except when in DRX

\- For a non-BL/CE UE and for subframe PUSCH transmissions, if DCI
format 0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B for serving cell and DCI format 3/3A are both
detected in the same subframe, then the UE shall use the provided in DCI
format 0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B.

\- For slot/subslot-PUSCH transmissions corresponding to a PDCCH/SPDCCH
with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B with the UE\'s C-RNTI for serving cell *c*,
the UE shall use the provided in DCI format 7-0A/7-0B

\- For serving cell *c* and slot/subslot-PUSCH transmissions without a
corresponding PDCCH/SPDCCH in slot/subslot *i* of subframe *I*, the UE
shall use the TPC command provided in the PDCCH with DCI format 3/3A
received in a subframe not later than subframe
![](media/image111.wmf){width="0.7291666666666666in" height="0.25in"}
when configured by higher layer *parameter tpc-PDCCH-ConfigPUSCH-SPS*
for the serving cell *c* and for the corresponding *SPS-ConfigIndex-r14*
if the UE is configured with multiple UL SPS configurations.

\- For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, if DCI format 6-0A for
serving cell and DCI format 3/3A are both detected in the same subframe,
then the UE shall use the provided in DCI format 6-0A.

\- dB for a subframe/slot/subslot where no TPC command is decoded for
serving cell or where DRX occurs or *i* is not an uplink
subframe/slot/subslot in TDD or FDD-TDD and serving cell c frame
structure type 2.

\- dB for subframe-PUSCH transmissions if the subframe *i* is not the
first subframe scheduled by a PDCCH/EPDCCH of DCI format 0B/4B.

\- The dB accumulated values signalled on PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B or PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B or MPDCCH
with DCI format 6-0A are given in Table 5.1.1.1-2. If the PDCCH/EPDCCH
with DCI format 0 or PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B or MPDCCH
with DCI format 6-0A or PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B is
validated as a SPS activation or release PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH,
then is 0dB.

\- The dB accumulated values signalled on PDCCH/MPDCCH with DCI format
3/3A are one of SET1 given in Table 5.1.1.1-2 or SET2 given in Table
5.1.1.1-3 as determined by the parameter *TPC-Index* provided by higher
layers.

\- If UE has reached for serving cell , positive TPC commands for
serving cell shall not be accumulated

\- If UE has reached minimum power, negative TPC commands shall not be
accumulated

\- For serving cell , when the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *shortTTI* or when there is a change in configuration
corresponding to the higher layer parameter *shortTTI*, for the first
following PUSCH transmission in a slot or subslot in a given subframe is
set to the value of associated with PUSCH of the previous uplink
subframe.

\- If the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell , the UE shall
reset accumulation

\- For serving cell , when value is changed by higher layers

\- For serving cell , when the UE receives random access response
message for serving cell

\- For serving cell , and BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, when the UE
performs PUSCH transmission using preconfigured uplink resource

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell ,

\- the UE shall reset accumulation corresponding to for serving cell

\- when value is changed by higher layers

\- when the UE receives random access response message for serving cell

\- the UE shall reset accumulation corresponding to for serving cell

\- when value is changed by higher layers

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v15x0* for serving cell , the UE shall
reset accumulation corresponding to for serving cell

\- when value is changed by higher layers

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell and

\- if subframe belongs to uplink power control subframe set 2 as
indicated by the higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12*

\- if subframe does not belong to uplink power control subframe set 2 as
indicated by the higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12*

\- and if accumulation is not enabled for serving cell based on the
parameter *Accumulation-enabled* or *accumulationEnabledsTTI* provided
by higher layers

\- where was signalled on PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B or PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B or MPDCCH
with DCI format 6-0A for serving cell on subframe . For a BL/CE UE
configured with CEModeA, subframe is the last subframe in which the
MPDCCH with DCI format 6-0A or MPDCCH with DCI format 3/3A is
transmitted.

\- The value of is

\- For FDD or FDD-TDD and serving cell frame structure type 1

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and
for PUSCH transmissions in a subslot,

\- the UE is configured with higher layer parameters
*dl-STTI-Length=\'subslot\'* and *ul-STTI-Length=\'slot\'* and for PUSCH
transmissions in a slot, corresponds to:

> \- a subslot among subslot *4* or *5* of subframe *N-3* or subslot *0*
> of subframe *N-2* in which the UE has received the TPC command if the
> slot- PUSCH is to be transmitted in slot *0* of subframe *N*. A UE is
> not expected to receive TPC command in more than one subslot among
> subslot *4* or *5* of subframe *N-3* or subslot *0* of subframe *N-2*
> corresponding to slot-PUSCH transmission in slot *0* of subframe *N*.
>
> \- a subslot among subslot *1* or *2* or *3* of subframe *N-2* in
> which the UE has received the TPC command if the slot-PUSCH is to be
> transmitted in slot *1* of subframe *N*. A UE is not expected to
> receive TPC command in more than one subslot among subslot *1* or *2*
> or *3* of subframe *N-2* corresponding to slot-PUSCH transmission in
> slot *1*of subframe *N*.

\- if configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and
the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the
UE-specific search space,

\- otherwise, = 4

\- For TDD, if the UE is configured with more than one serving cell and
the TDD UL/DL configuration of at least two configured serving cells is
not the same, or if the UE is configured with the parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for at least one serving cell, or FDD-TDD
and serving cell frame structure type 2, the \"TDD UL/DL configuration\"
refers to the UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined in Clause 8.0)
for serving cell .

\- For TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6 and UE not configured with higher
layer parameter *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* for the serving cell ,
![](media/image108.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.22916666666666666in"} is
given

\- in Table 5.1.1.1-1A if the UE is configured with
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for subframe-PUSCH
transmissions,

\- in Table 5.1.1.1-1B for special subframe configuration 1, 2, 3, 4, 6,
7, 8 and Table 5.1.1.1-1C for special subframe configuration 0, 5, 9 if
the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *sTTI*, and for uplink
transmissions in a slot,

\- by if the slot-PUSCH transmission in slot 15 or 16 is scheduled with
a PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B in which the LSB of the UL
index is set to 1 for TDD UL/DL configuration 6 and special subframe
configuration 0, 5, 9,

\- in Table 5.1.1.1-1 otherwise.

\- For TDD UL/DL configuration 0 and UE not configured with higher layer
parameter *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* for the serving cell .

\- If the subframe-PUSCH transmission in subframe *2* or *7* is
scheduled with a PDCCH/EPDCCH of DCI format 0/4 or a MPDCCH with DCI
format 6-0A in which the LSB of the UL index is set to 1, = 7

\- For slot-PUSCH transmissions, is given by Table 5.1.1.1-1B for
special subframe configuration 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and Table 5.1.1.1-1C
for special subframe configuration 0, 5, 9.

> \- For all other PUSCH transmissions, is given in Table 5.1.1.1-1A if
> the UE is configured with *shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding
> PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space,
> Table 5.1.1.1-1 otherwise.
>
> \- For TDD UL/DL configurations 0-5 and UE configured with higher
> layer parameter *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* for the serving cell ,
> ![](media/image108.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}
> is given in

\- Table 5.1.1.1-4A if the UE is configured with *shortProcessingTime*
and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the
UE-specific search space,

\- Table 5.1.1.1-4B for slot-PUSCH transmissions,

\- Table 5.1.1.1-4 otherwise.

> \- For TDD UL/DL configuration 6 and UE configured with higher layer
> parameter *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* for the serving cell
>
> \- If the subframe-PUSCH transmission in subframe *2* or *7* is
> scheduled with a PDCCH/EPDCCH of DCI format 0/4 if the UE is not
> configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* or if the
> UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and
> the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the common
> search space in which the LSB of the UL index is set to 1, = 6.

-   If the subframe-PUSCH transmission in subframe *s* is scheduled with
    a PDCCH of DCI format 0/4, if the UE is configured with higher layer
    parameter *shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC
    scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space in which the
    LSB of the UL index is set to 1,

-   ![](media/image128.wmf){width="0.5in"
    > height="0.20833333333333334in"} for *s= 1 or 2*

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   ![](media/image129.wmf){width="0.5in"
    > height="0.20833333333333334in"} for *s= 3*

\- If the slot-PUSCH transmission in slot 4, 15 or 16 is scheduled with
a PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B in which the LSB of the UL
index is set to 1, ![](media/image108.wmf){width="0.5in"
height="0.23472222222222222in"}= 5.

\- For all other PUSCH transmissions, is given in

> \- Table 5.1.1.1-4A if the UE is configured with *shortProcessingTime*
> and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the
> UE-specific search space,
>
> \- Table 5.1.1.1-4B for slot- PUSCH transmissions,
>
> \- Table 5.1.1.1-4 otherwise.

\- For a serving cell with frame structure type 3,

\- For an uplink DCI format 0A/4A carrying AUL-DFI according to clause
8.3A, ![](media/image109.wmf){width="0.5166666666666667in"
height="0.25in"}=4.

\- For an uplink DCI format 0A/4A with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI with
PUSCH trigger A set to 0, is equal to *k*+*l*, where *k* and *l* are
defined in in Clause 8.0.

\- For an uplink DCI format 0B/4B with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI with
PUSCH trigger A set to 0, is equal to *k*+*l*+*i\'* with , where
*n^i^*~HARQ\_ID~ is HARQ process number in subframe *i*, and *k*, *l*,
*n*~HARQ\_ID~ and *N*~HARQ~ are defined in Clause 8.0.

\- For an uplink DCI format 0A/4A with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI with
PUSCH trigger A set to 1 and upon the detection of PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by CC-RNTI and with \'PUSCH trigger B\' field set to \'1\'
described in Clause 8.0, is equal to *p*+*k*+*l*, where *p*, *k* and *l*
are defined in Clause 8.0.

\- For an uplink DCI format 0B/4B with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI with
PUSCH trigger A set to 1 and upon the detection of PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by CC-RNTI and with \'PUSCH trigger B\' field set to \'1\'
described in Clause 8.0, is equal to *p*+*k*+*l*+*i\'* with , where
*n^i^*~HARQ\_ID~ is HARQ process number in subframe *i*, and *p*, *k*,
*l*, *n*~HARQ\_ID~ and *N*~HARQ~ are defined in Clause 8.0.

-   If a UE detected multiple TPC commands in subframe , the UE shall
    use the TPC command in the PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
    0A/0B/0C/4A/4B with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI which schedules PUSCH
    transmission in subframe *i*.

\- The dB absolute values signalled on PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B or PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B or a MPDCCH
with DCI format 6-0A are given in Table 5.1.1.1-2. If the PDCCH/EPDCCH
with DCI format 0 or PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B or a MPDCCH
with DCI format 6-0A is validated as a SPS activation or release
PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH, then is 0dB.

\- for a non-BL/CE UE, and for a subframe where no PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI
format 0/0A/0B/0C/4/4A/4B is decoded for serving cell or where DRX
occurs or *i* is not an uplink subframe in TDD or FDD-TDD and serving
cell c frame structure type 2.

\- for a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, and for a subframe where no
MPDCCH with DCI format 6-0A is decoded for serving cell or where DRX
occurs or *i* is not an uplink subframe in TDD.

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell and

\- if subframe belongs to uplink power control subframe set 2 as
indicated by the higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12*

\- if subframe does not belong to uplink power control subframe set 2 as
indicated by the higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12*

\- For both types of (accumulation or current absolute) the first value
is set as follows:

\- If value is changed by higher layers and serving cell is the primary
cell or, if value is received by higher layers and serving cell is a
Secondary cell or, if a BL/CE UE transmits using preconfigured uplink
resources,

\-

\- Note for a BL/CE UE, $f_{c}\left( i \right)$ = 0 for i = 0,1,... up
to the last subframe of the PUSCH transmission using preconfigured
uplink resource.

\- For serving cell , when the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *shortTTI* or when there is a change in configuration
corresponding to the higher layer parameter *shortTTI*, for the first
following PUSCH transmission in a slot or subslot in a given subframe is
set to the value of associated with PUSCH of the previous uplink
subframe.

\- Else

\- If the UE receives the random access response message for a serving
cell

\- , where

> \- is the TPC command indicated in the random access response
> corresponding to the random access preamble transmitted in the serving
> cell , see Clause 6.2, and
>
> and is provided by higher layers and corresponds to the total power
> ramp-up requested by higher layers from the first to the last preamble
> in the serving cell , is the bandwidth of the PUSCH resource
> assignment expressed in number of resource blocks valid for the
> subframe of first PUSCH transmission in the serving cell , and
> ∆*~TF,c~*(0) is the power adjustment of first PUSCH transmission in
> the serving cell *c*. If a UE is performing non-contention based
> random access procedure and is configured with higher layer parameter
> *pusch-EnhancementsConfig*, $\delta_{\text{msg}2} = 0.$ For a PUSCH
> transmission corresponding to *ul-ConfigInfo-r14,* the UE shall assume
> $\Delta P_{rampuprequested,c} = \delta_{msg2,c} = 0$

\- If value is received by higher layers for a serving cell *c.*

\-

Table 5.1.1.1-1: ![](media/image146.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"} for TDD configuration 0-6

  --------------- --------------------- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
  TDD UL/DL\      subframe number *i*                                          
  Configuration                                                                

                  0                     1    2   3    4    5    6    7    8    9

  0               \-                    \-   6   7    4    \-   \-   6    7    4

  1               \-                    \-   6   4    \-   \-   \-   6    4    \-

  2               \-                    \-   4   \-   \-   \-   \-   4    \-   \-

  3               \-                    \-   4   4    4    \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  4               \-                    \-   4   4    \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  5               \-                    \-   4   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  6               \-                    \-   7   7    5    \-   \-   7    7    \-
  --------------- --------------------- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----

Table 5.1.1.1-1A: ![](media/image146.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"} for TDD configuration 0-6, special subframe
configuration 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and UE configured with
*shortProcessingTime*

  --------------- --------------------- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
  TDD UL/DL\      subframe number *i*                                          
  Configuration                                                                

                  0                     1    2   3    4    5    6    7    8    9

  0               \-                    \-   6   3    3    \-   \-   6    3    3

  1               \-                    \-   3   3    \-   \-   \-   3    3    \-

  2               \-                    \-   3   \-   \-   \-   \-   3    \-   \-

  3               \-                    \-   3   3    3    \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  4               \-                    \-   3   3    \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  5               \-                    \-   3   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  6               \-                    \-   6   4    4    \-   \-   6    3    \-
  --------------- --------------------- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----

Table 5.1.1.1-1B: ![](media/image146.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"} for TDD configurations 0-6, special subframe
configuration 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and UE configured with
*ul-STTI-Length*

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TDD UL/DL\      slot number *i*                                                                                    
  Configuration                                                                                                      
  --------------- ----------------- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
                  0                 1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19

  0                                             4   4   4   5   5   6                       4    4    4    5    5    6

  1                                             4   4   4   4                               4    4    4    4         

  2                                             4   4                                       4    4                   

  3                                             6   6   6   6   6   6                                                

  4                                             4   4   4   4                                                        

  5                                             4   4                                                                

  6                                             6   6   6   6   6   6                       4    4    4    4         
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 5.1.1.1-1C: ![](media/image146.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"} for TDD configurations 0-6, special subframe
configuration 0, 5, 9 and UE configured with *ul-STTI-Length*

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TDD UL/DL\      slot number *i*                                                                                    
  Configuration                                                                                                      
  --------------- ----------------- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
                  0                 1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19

  0                                             4   5   5   6   6   7                       4    5    5    6    6    7

  1                                             5   5   5   5                               5    5    5    5         

  2                                             4   4                                       4    4                   

  3                                             7   7   7   7   7   7                                                

  4                                             5   5   5   5                                                        

  5                                             4   4                                                                

  6                                             4   5   5   6   6   7                       4    4    4    5         
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 5.1.1.1-2: Mapping of TPC Command Field in DCI format
0/0A/0B/0C/3/4/4A/4B/6-0A/3B/7-0A/7-0B to absolute and accumulated
values

+-----------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| TPC Command Field in  | Accumulated \[dB\] | Absolute \[dB\] only  |
|                       |                    | DCI format            |
| DCI format            |                    | 0/0A/0B/0C/4          |
| 0/0A/0B/0C/3/4/4A     |                    | /4A/4B/6-0A/7-0A/7-0B |
| /4B/6-0A/3B/7-0A/7-0B |                    |                       |
+=======================+====================+=======================+
| 0                     | -1                 | -4                    |
+-----------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| 1                     | 0                  | -1                    |
+-----------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| 2                     | 1                  | 1                     |
+-----------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| 3                     | 3                  | 4                     |
+-----------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+

Table 5.1.1.1-3: Mapping of TPC Command Field in DCI format 3A/3B to
accumulated values

+----------------------+--------------------+
| TPC Command Field in | Accumulated \[dB\] |
|                      |                    |
| DCI format 3A/3B     |                    |
+======================+====================+
| 0                    | -1                 |
+----------------------+--------------------+
| 1                    | 1                  |
+----------------------+--------------------+

Table 5.1.1.1-4: ![](media/image146.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"} for TDD configuration 0-6 and UE configured with
*symPUSCH-UpPts-r14*

  --------------- --------------------- --- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
  TDD UL/DL\      subframe number *i*                                         
  Configuration                                                               

                  0                     1   2   3    4    5    6    7    8    9

  0               \-                    5   7   7    4    \-   5    7    7    4

  1               \-                    6   6   4    \-   \-   6    6    4    \-

  2               \-                    5   4   \-   \-   \-   5    4    \-   \-

  3               \-                    4   4   4    4    \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  4               \-                    4   4   4    \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  5               \-                    4   4   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  6               \-                    6   7   7    5    \-   6    7    7    \-
  --------------- --------------------- --- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----

Table 5.1.1.1-4A: ![](media/image146.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"} for TDD configuration 0-6 and UE configured with
*symPUSCH-UpPts-r14* and UE configured with *shortProcessingTime*

  --------------- --------------------- --- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
  TDD UL/DL\      subframe number *i*                                         
  Configuration                                                               

                  0                     1   2   3    4    5    6    7    8    9

  0               \-                    6   6   3    3    \-   6    6    3    3

  1               \-                    5   3   3    \-   \-   5    3    3    \-

  2               \-                    3   3   \-   \-   \-   3    3    \-   \-

  3               \-                    3   3   3    3    \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  4               \-                    3   3   3    \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  5               \-                    3   3   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-   \-

  6               \-                    5   3   3    4    \-   5    6    3    \-
  --------------- --------------------- --- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----

Table 5.1.1.1-4B: ![](media/image146.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"} for TDD configurations 0-6 and UE configured with
*symPUSCH-UpPts-r14*, and UE configured with *ul-STTI-Length*

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TDD UL/DL\      slot number *i*                                                                                     
  Configuration                                                                                                       
  --------------- ----------------- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
                  0                 1   2   3    4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19

  0                                         11   4   5   5   6   6   7                  11   4    5    5    6    6    7

  1                                         5    5   5   5   5                          5    5    5    5    5         

  2                                         4    4   4                                  4    4    4                   

  3                                         7    7   7   7   7   7   7                                                

  4                                         5    5   5   5   5                                                        

  5                                         4    4   4                                                                

  6                                         4    4   5   5   6   6   7                  11   4    4    4    5         
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For a given serving cell, if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *shortProcessingTime* , the UE shall use the TPC command
received with DCI format 0/4 mapped onto the UE-specific search space
for subframe *i*.

For a UE capable of simultaneous transmission of different uplink signal
durations to different serving cells as indicated by UE capability
*simultaneousTx-differentTx-duration*, if PUSCH/PUCCH transmissions of
different duration occur in different serving cells and in the same
subframe and if the total transmit power of the UE would exceed
![](media/image147.wmf){width="0.6166666666666667in"
height="0.2833333333333333in"}, *the UE shall follow the dropping rules
described in* Clause *5.1.5 until* the total transmit power of the UE
would not exceed ![](media/image147.wmf){width="0.6166666666666667in"
height="0.2833333333333333in"}*or until there are only* PUSCH/PUCCH
transmissions of the same duration remaining in which case the following
rules apply.

If the UE is not configured with an SCG or a PUCCH-SCell, and if *the
total transmit power of the UE would exceed , the UE scales for the
serving cell in subframe/slot/subslot i such that the condition*

*is satisfied where is the linear value of , is the linear value of , is
the linear value of the UE total configured maximum output power defined
in \[6\] in subframe/slot/subslot i and is a scaling factor of for
serving cell where . In case there is no PUCCH transmission in
subframe/slot/subslot i .*

If the UE is not configured with an SCG or a PUCCH-SCell, and if the UE
has PUSCH transmission with UCI on serving cell *j* and PUSCH without
UCI in any of the remaining serving cells, and the total transmit power
of the UE would exceed , the UE scales for the serving cells without UCI
in subframe*/slot/subslot* *i* such that the condition

is satisfied where  is the PUSCH transmit power for the cell with UCI
andis a scaling factor of for serving cell  without UCI. In this case,
no power scaling is applied to unless and the total transmit power of
the UE still would exceed *.*

*For a UE not configured with a SCG or a PUCCH-SCell, note thatvalues
are the same across serving cells whenbut for certain serving cells may
be zero.*

*If the UE is not configured with an SCG or a PUCCH-SCell, and if the UE
has simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH transmission with UCI on serving cell
j* and PUSCH transmission without UCI in any of the remaining serving
cells, and the total transmit power of the UE would exceed , the UE
obtains according to

and

If the UE is not configured with a SCG or a PUCCH-SCell, and

\- If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs, and if the PUCCH/PUSCH
transmission of the UE on subframe/*slot/subslot* for a given serving
cell in a TAG overlaps some portion of the first symbol of the PUSCH
transmission on subframe/*slot/subslot* for a different serving cell in
another TAG the UE shall adjust its total transmission power to not
exceed on any overlapped portion.

\- If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs, and if the PUSCH
transmission of the UE on subframe/*slot/subslot* for a given serving
cell in a TAG overlaps some portion of the first symbol of the PUCCH
transmission on subframe/*slot/subslot* for a different serving cell in
another TAG the UE shall adjust its total transmission power to not
exceed on any overlapped portion.

\- If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs, and if the trigger type
0/1 SRS transmission of the UE in a symbol on subframe/slot/subslot for
a given serving cell in a TAG overlaps with the PUCCH/PUSCH transmission
on subframe/slot/subslot or subframe/slot/subslot for a different
serving cell in the same or another TAG the UE shall drop trigger type
0/1 SRS if its total transmission power exceeds on any overlapped
portion of the symbol.

\- If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs, and if the trigger type 2
SRS transmission of the UE in a symbol on subframe/slot/subslot $i$ for
a given serving cell in a TAG overlaps with the PUCCH/PUSCH transmission
on subframe/slot/subslot $i$, $i - 1$ or $i + 1$ for a different serving
cell in the same or another TAG, the UE shall drop the trigger type 2
SRS in the overlapped symbol if its total transmission power exceeds
$P_{\text{CMAX}}$ on any overlapped portion of the symbol.

\- If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs and more than 2 serving
cells, and if the trigger type 0/1 SRS transmission of the UE in a
symbol on subframe/*slot/subslot* for a given serving cell overlaps with
the SRS transmission on subframe/slot/subslot for a different serving
cell(s) and with PUSCH/PUCCH transmission on subframe/*slot/subslot* or
subframe/slot/subslot for another serving cell(s) the UE shall drop the
trigger type 0/1 SRS transmissions if the total transmission power
exceeds on any overlapped portion of the symbol.

\- If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs and more than 2 serving
cells, and if the trigger type 2 SRS transmission of the UE in a symbol
on subframe/*slot/subslot* $i$ for a given serving cell overlaps with
the SRS transmission on subframe/slot/subslot $i - 1$, $i$ or $i + 1$
for a different serving cell(s) and with PUSCH/PUCCH transmission on
subframe/*slot/subslot* $i - 1$, $i$ or $i + 1$ for another serving
cell(s), the UE shall drop the trigger type 2 SRS transmission in the
overlapped symbol if the total transmission power exceeds
$P_{\text{CMAX}}$ on any overlapped portion of the symbol.

\- If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs, the UE shall, when
requested by higher layers, to transmit PRACH in a secondary serving
cell in parallel with SRS transmission in a symbol on a subframe of a
different serving cell belonging to a different TAG, drop SRS if the
total transmission power exceeds on any overlapped portion in the
symbol.

\- If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs, the UE shall, when
requested by higher layers, to transmit PRACH in a secondary serving
cell in parallel with PUSCH/PUCCH in a different serving cell belonging
to a different TAG, adjust the transmission power of PUSCH/PUCCH so that
its total transmission power does not exceed on the overlapped portion.

If the UE is configured with a LAA SCell for uplink transmissions, the
UE may compute the *scaling factor* assuming that the UE performs a
PUSCH transmission on the LAA SCell in subframe *i irrespective of
whether the UE can access the LAA SCell for the PUSCH* transmission in
subframe *i according to the* channel access procedures described in
Clause 4.2.1 of \[13\].

For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, if the PUSCH transmission,
scheduled by one DCI, is transmitted in more than one subframe *i~0~*,
*i~1~*, ..., *i~N-1~* where *i~0~*\< *i~1~*\< ...\< *i~N-1~*, the PUSCH
transmit power in subframe *i~k~* , *k*=0, 1, ..., *N*-1, is determined
by

except in case the DCI contains an UL index set to '11'.

For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeB, the PUSCH transmit power in
subframe *i~k~* is determined by

#### 5.1.1.2 Power headroom

There are three types of UE power headroom reports defined. A UE power
headroom is valid for subframe/slot/subslot *i* for serving cell .

If the UE is configured with a SCG, and if the higher layer parameter
*phr-ModeOtherCG-r12* for a CG indicates \'virtual\', for power headroom
reports transmitted on that CG, the UE shall compute PH assuming that it
does not transmit PUSCH/PUCCH on any serving cell of the other CG.

For a UE configured with EN-DC/NE-DC and capable of dynamic power
sharing, if a NR Multiple Entry PHR \[15, TS 38.321\] is triggered and
if the NR slot on active UL BWP that carries the Multiple Entry PHR is
not aligned with E-UTRA subframe due to asynchronous EN-DC/NE-DC \[16,
TS 38.133\] or different duration between the NR slot and E-UTRA
subframe, UE provides PH of the first E-UTRA subframe that overlaps with
the NR slot.

If the UE is configured with a SCG,

\- For computing power headroom for cells belonging to MCG, the term
\'serving cell\' in this clause refers to serving cell belonging to the
MCG.

\- For computing power headroom for cells belonging to SCG, the term
\'serving cell\' in this clause refers to serving cell belonging to the
SCG. The term \'primary cell\' in this clause refers to the PSCell of
the SCG.

If the UE is configured with a PUCCH-SCell,

\- For computing power headroom for cells belonging to primary PUCCH
group, the term \'serving cell\' in this clause refers to serving cell
belonging to the primary PUCCH group.

\- For computing power headroom for cells belonging to secondary PUCCH
group, the term \'serving cell\' in this clause refers to serving cell
belonging to the secondary PUCCH group. The term \'primary cell\' in
this clause refers to the PUCCH-SCell of the secondary PUCCH group.

In this clause,

\- the term \'scheduled to transmit PUSCH\' refers to PUSCH scheduled
via an uplink scheduling grant or semi-persistent scheduling assignment.

\- the terms \'PUCCH is prepared to be transmitted\' or \'prepared to
transmit PUCCH\' refer to PUCCH for which the UE has started generating
the UCI.

If the UE is configured with a LAA SCell for uplink transmissions, and
the UE receives PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B with PUSCH
trigger A set to 0 corresponding to a PUSCH transmission on the LAA
SCell in subframe *i*, power headroom for subframe *i* is computed
assuming that the UE performs a PUSCH transmission on the LAA SCell in
subframe *i irrespective of whether the UE can access the LAA SCell for
the PUSCH* transmission in subframe *i according to the* channel access
procedures described in Clause 4.2.1 of \[13\].

If the UE is configured with an LAA SCell for uplink transmissions, and
if the UE reports power headroom in subframe *i* in serving cell *c* in
a PUSCH transmission scheduled using DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B with \'PUSCH
trigger A\' set to 0 or in a PUSCH transmission scheduled using DCI
format 0/4,

\- for LAA SCells other than serving cell *c* on which UE receives a DCI
format 0A/0B/4A/4B or PUSCH trigger B in subframe *i*-4 or earlier
indicating a PUSCH transmission in subframe *i*, power headroom for the
serving cell is computed assuming that the UE performs a PUSCH
transmission on that serving cell in subframe *i.*

\- for LAA SCells other than serving cell *c* on which UE does not
receive a DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B or PUSCH trigger B in subframe *i-4* or
earlier, indicating a PUSCH transmission in subframe *i*, power headroom
for the serving cell is computed assuming that the UE does not perform a
PUSCH transmission on that serving cell in subframe *i*.

If the UE is configured with a LAA SCell for uplink transmissions, and
if the UE receives a DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B with PUSCH trigger A set to
1 in subframe *n* on serving cell *c*, and if the UE reports power
headroom on serving cell *c* using the received DCI,

\- for serving cells other than the serving cell *c,* the UE computes
power headroom assuming that it performs a PUSCH transmission in
subframe *n*+![](media/image177.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}, if in subframe *n* or earlier, the UE
receives a DCI format 0/4 or DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B with PUSCH trigger A
set to 0 or PUSCH trigger B set to 1, indicating PUSCH transmission in
subframe *n*+![](media/image177.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}.

\- for serving cells other than the serving cell *c,* the UE computes
power headroom assuming that it does not perform a PUSCH transmission in
subframe *n*+![](media/image177.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}*,* if in subframe *n* or earlier, the UE
does not receive a DCI Format 0/4 or DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B with PUSCH
trigger A set to 0 or PUSCH trigger B set to 1, indicating PUSCH
transmission in subframe
*n*+![](media/image177.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}.

If serving cell *c* is configured with higher layer parameter
*ul-STTI-Length=\'subslot\',* and if the UE reports power headroom on
subslot *i* of serving cell *c*, for serving cells other than serving
cell *c,* the UE computes power headroom for

\- subslot *i*, if the serving cells are configured with higher layer
parameter *ul-STTI-Length*=*\'subslot\'*

\- the slot containing subslot *i*, if the serving cells are configured
with higher layer parameter *ul-STTI-Length*=*\'slot\'*

\- the subframe containing subslot *i*, otherwise.

If serving cell *c* is configured with higher layer parameter
*ul-STTI-Length=\'slot\',* and if the UE reports power headroom on slot
*i* of serving cell *c* using slot-PUSCH, for serving cells other than
serving cell *c,* the UE computes power headroom for

\- slot *i*, if the serving cells are configured with higher layer
parameter *ul-STTI-Length*=*\'slot\'*

\- the subframe containing slot *i*, otherwise.

If the UE reports power headroom on subframe *i* of serving cell *c*
using subframe-PUSCH, for serving cells other than serving cell *c,* the
UE computes power headroom for subframe *i*.

Type 1:

If the UE is scheduled to transmit PUSCH and is not prepared to transmit
PUCCH in subframe/slot/subslot for serving cell , then power headroom
for a Type 1 report is computed using

\[dB\]

where, , , , , , and are defined in Clause 5.1.1.1.

If the UE is scheduled to transmit PUSCH and is prepared to transmit
PUCCH in subframe/slot/subslot for serving cell , then power headroom
for a Type 1 report is computed using

\[dB\]

where, , , , , and are defined in Clause 5.1.1.1. is computed based on
the requirements in \[6\] assuming a PUSCH only transmission in
subframe/slot/subslot . For this case, the physical layer delivers
instead of to higher layers.

If the UE is not scheduled to transmit PUSCH in subframe/slot/subslot
for serving cell , or if the UE is configured with an LAA SCell for
uplink transmissions and receives DCI Format 0A/0B/4A/4B with PUSCH
trigger A set to 1 on a serving cell *c* and if the UE reports power
headroom in the PUSCH transmission corresponding to the DCI in serving
cell *c*, then the power headroom for a Type 1 report is computed using

\[dB\]

where, is computed assuming MPR=0dB, A-MPR=0dB, P-MPR=0dB and ∆T~C~
=0dB, where MPR , A-MPR, P-MPR and ∆T~C~ are defined in \[6\]. , , , and
are defined in Clause 5.1.1.1.

Type 2:

If the UE is scheduled to transmit PUSCH and is prepared to transmit
PUCCH in subframe/slot/subslot for the primary cell, then power headroom
for a Type 2 report is computed using

\[dB\]

where, , , , , and are the primary cell parameters as defined in Clause
5.1.1.1 and , , , , and are defined in Clause 5.1.2.1

If the UE is scheduled to transmit PUSCH and is not prepared to transmit
PUCCH in subframe/slot/subslot for the primary cell, then power headroom
for a Type 2 report is computed using

\[dB\]

where, , , , , and are the primary cell parameters as defined in Clause
5.1.1.1 and , and are defined in Clause 5.1.2.1.

If the UE is prepared to transmit PUCCH without PUSCH in
subframe/slot/subslot for the primary cell, power headroom for a Type 2
report is computed using

\[dB\]

where, , and are the primary cell parameters as defined in Clause
5.1.1.1, ,, , , , and are also defined in Clause 5.1.2.1.

If the UE is not scheduled to transmit PUSCH and is not prepared to
transmit PUCCH in subframe/slot/subslot for the primary cell, then power
headroom for a Type 2 report is computed using

\[dB\]

where, is computed assuming MPR=0dB, A-MPR=0dB, P-MPR=0dB and ∆T~C~
=0dB, where MPR ,\
A-MPR, P-MPR and ∆T~C~ are defined in \[6\], , and are the primary cell
parameters as defined in Clause 5.1.1.1 and , and are defined in Clause
5.1.2.1.

If the UE is unable to determine whether there is a PUCCH transmission
corresponding to PDSCH transmission(s) or not, or which PUCCH resource
is used, in subframe *i* for the primary cell, before generating power
headroom for a Type 2 report, upon (E)PDCCH detection, with the
following conditions:

\- if both PUCCH format 1b with channel selection and
*simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH* are configured for the UE, or

\- if PUCCH format 1b with channel selection is used for HARQ-ACK
feedback for the UE configured with PUCCH format 3 and
*simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH* are configured,

then, UE is allowed to compute power headroom for a Type 2 using

\[dB\]

where, , , , , and are the primary cell parameters as defined in Clause
5.1.1.1 and , and are defined in Clause 5.1.2.1.

Type 3:

Computation of power headroom for Type 3 report is described in Clause
5.1.3.2.

The power headroom shall be rounded to the closest value in the range
\[40; -23\] dB with steps of 1 dB and is delivered by the physical layer
to higher layers.

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell and if subframe
belongs to uplink power control subframe set 2 as indicated by the
higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12,* the UE shall use instead
of to compute and for subframe *i* and serving cell , where is defined
in Clause 5.1.1.1.

### 5.1.2 Physical uplink control channel

If the UE is configured with a SCG, the UE shall apply the procedures
described in this clause for both MCG and SCG.

\- When the procedures are applied for MCG, the term \'serving cell\' in
this clause refers to serving cell belonging to the MCG.

When the procedures are applied for SCG, the term \'serving cell\' in
this clause refers to serving cell belonging to the SCG. The term
\'primary cell\' in this clause refers to the PSCell of the SCG.If the
UE is configured with a PUCCH-SCell, the UE shall apply the procedures
described in this clause for both primary PUCCH group and secondary
PUCCH group.

\- When the procedures are applied for the primary PUCCH group, the term
\'serving cell\' in this clause refers to serving cell belonging to the
primary PUCCH group.

\- When the procedures are applied for the secondary PUCCH group, the
term \'serving cell\' in this clause refers to serving cell belonging to
the secondary PUCCH group. The term \'primary cell\' in this clause
refers to the PUCCH-SCell of the secondary PUCCH group.

#### 5.1.2.1 UE behaviour

If serving cell is the primary cell, for PUCCH format 1/1a/1b/2/2a/2b/3,
the setting of the UE Transmit powerfor the physical uplink control
channel (PUCCH) transmission in subframe/slot/subslot *i* for serving
cell ![](media/image213.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.125in"} is
defined by

\[dBm\]

If serving cell is the primary cell, for PUCCH format 4/5, the setting
of the UE Transmit powerfor the physical uplink control channel (PUCCH)
transmission in subframe/slot/subslot *i* for serving cell
![](media/image213.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.125in"} is defined by

\[dBm\]

If the UE is not transmitting PUCCH for the primary cell, for the
accumulation of TPC command for PUCCH, the UE shall assume that the UE
transmit power for PUCCH in subframe/slot/subslot *i* is computed by

\[dBm\]

where

\- is the configured UE transmit power defined in \[6\] in
subframe/slot/subslot i for serving cell . If the UE transmits PUSCH
without PUCCH in subframe for the serving cell c, for the accumulation
of TPC command for PUCCH, the UE shall assume as given by Clause
5.1.1.1. If the UE does not transmit PUCCH and PUSCH in
subframe/slot/subslot for the serving cell c, for the accumulation of
TPC command for PUCCH, the UE shall compute assuming MPR=0dB, A-MPR=0dB,
P-MPR=0dB and ∆T~C~ =0dB, where MPR, A-MPR, P-MPR and ∆T~C~ are defined
in \[6\].

\- The parameter is provided by higher layers. Each value corresponds to
a PUCCH format (*F*) relative to subframe-PUCCH format 1a, where each
PUCCH format (*F* ) is defined in Table 5.4-1 of \[3\] for
subframe-PUCCH, in Table 5.4A-1 of \[3\] for slot-PUCCH, and in Table
5.4A-2 of \[3\] for subslot-PUCCH.

\- If the UE is configured by higher layers to transmit PUCCH on two
antenna ports, the value of is provided by higher layers where each
PUCCH format *F\'* is defined in Table 5.4-1 of \[3\] for
subframe-PUCCH, in Table 5.4A-1 of \[3\] for slot-PUCCH, and in Table
5.4A-2 of \[3\] for subslot-PUCCH; otherwise, .

\- is a PUCCH format dependent value, where corresponds to the number of
information bits for the channel quality information defined in Clause
5.2.3.3 in \[4\]. = 1 if subframe/slot/subslot *i* is configured for SR
for the UE not having any associated transport block for UL-SCH,
otherwise =0. If the UE is configured with more than one serving cell,
or the UE is configured with one serving cell and transmitting using
PUCCH format 3, the value of is defined in Clause 10.1; otherwise, is
the number of HARQ-ACK bits sent in subframe/slot/subslot *i*.

\- For subframe-PUCCH format 1,1a and 1b

\- For PUCCH format 1b with channel selection, if the UE is configured
with more than one serving cell, , otherwise,

\- For PUCCH format 2, 2a, 2b and normal cyclic prefix

\- For PUCCH format 2 and extended cyclic prefix

\- For PUCCH format 3 or for all slot/subslot PUCCH formats except
slot/subslot PUCCH format 4 and when UE transmits HARQ-ACK/SR without
periodic CSI,

\- If the UE is configured by higher layers to transmit PUCCH format 3
on two antenna ports, or if the UE transmits more than 11 bits of
HARQ-ACK/SR

\- Otherwise

\- For PUCCH format 3 and when UE transmits HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic
CSI,

\- If the UE is configured by higher layers to transmit PUCCH format 3
on two antenna ports, or if the UE transmits more than 11 bits of
HARQ-ACK/SR and CSI

\- Otherwise

\- For PUCCH format 4, is the bandwidth of the PUCCH format 4 expressed
in number of resource blocks valid for subframe/slot/subslot *i* and
serving cell . For PUCCH format 5, .

\- where , and

\- for subframe-PUCCH

\- is the number of HARQ-ACK/SR/RI/CQI/PMI bits including CRC bits
transmitted on PUCCH format 4/5 in subframe *i*;

\- for PUCCH format 4 and for PUCCH format 5;

\- if shortened PUCCH format 4 or shortened PUCCH format 5 is used in
subframe *i* and otherwise.

\- for slot/subslot-PUCCH

\- is the total number of HARQ-ACK/SR bits including CRC bits
transmitted on PUCCH format 4 in slot/subslot *i*;

\- is the number of REs used for slot/subslot-PUCCH format 4
transmission in slot/subslot *i*

\- is a parameter composed of the sum of a parameter provided by higher
layers and a parameter provided by higher layers.

\- is a UE specific correction value, also referred to as a TPC command,
included in a PDCCH with DCI format 1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D for the
primary cell, or included in a MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A, or included
in an EPDCCH with DCI format 1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D for the primary
cell, or included in a PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *shortTTI* for the primary cell, or sent jointly coded with
other UE specific PUCCH correction values on a PDCCH/MPDCCH with DCI
format 3/3A whose CRC parity bits are scrambled with TPC-PUCCH-RNTI.

\- For a non-BL/CE UE, if the UE is not configured for EPDCCH
monitoring, the UE attempts to decode

\- a PDCCH of DCI format 3/3A with the UE\'s TPC-PUCCH-RNTI and one or
several PDCCHs of DCI format 1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D with the UE\'s
C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI on every subframe except when in DRX.

\- a PDCCH of DCI format 3/3A with the UE\'s TPC-PUCCH-RNTI in case of
slot/subslot-PUCCH transmissions associated with PDSCH/PUSCH
transmissions without a corresponding PDCCH/SPDCCH, when configured by
higher layer *parameter tpc-PDCCH-ConfigPUCCH-SPS*

\- a PDCCH/SPDCCH of DCI format 7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* in case of
slot/subslot-PUCCH transmissions associated with PDSCH/PUSCH
transmissions with corresponding PDCCH/SPDCCH

\- If a UE is configured for EPDCCH monitoring, the UE attempts to
decode

\- a PDCCH of DCI format 3/3A with the UE\'s TPC-PUCCH-RNTI and one or
several PDCCHs of DCI format 1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D with the UE\'s
C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI as described in Clause 9.1.1, and

\- one or several EPDCCHs of DCI format 1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D with
the UE\'s C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI, as described in Clause 9.1.4, and

\- a PDCCH of DCI format 3/3A with the UE\'s TPC-PUCCH-RNTI in case of
slot/subslot-PUCCH transmissions associated with PDSCH/PUSCH
transmissions without a corresponding PDCCH/SPDCCH, when configured by
higher layer *parameter tpc-PDCCH-ConfigPUCCH-SPS*

\- a PDCCH/SPDCCH of DCI format 7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G with the UE\'s
C-RNTI as described in Clause 9.6.1if the UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *shortTTI* in case of slot/subslot-PUCCH transmissions
associated with PDSCH/PUSCH transmissions with corresponding
PDCCH/SPDCCH.

\- For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, the UE attempts to decode a
MPDCCH of DCI format 3/3A with the UE\'s TPC-PUCCH-RNTI and MPDCCH of
DCI format 6-1A with the UE\'s C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI or PUR-RNTI on every
BL/CE downlink subframe except when in DRX.

\- If the UE decodes

\- a PDCCH with DCI format
1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G or

\- an EPDCCH with DCI format 1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D or

\- an MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A or

\- a SPDCCH with DCI format 7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G

for the primary cell and the corresponding detected RNTI equals the
C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI or PUR-RNTI of the UE and the TPC field in the DCI
format is not used to determine the PUCCH resource as in Clause 10.1,
the UE shall use the provided in that PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH.

Else

\- if the UE decodes a PDCCH/MPDCCH with DCI format 3/3A, the UE shall
use the provided in that PDCCH/MPDCCH

else the UE shall set = 0 dB.

\- where is the current PUCCH power control adjustment state and where
is the first value after reset.

\- For FDD or FDD-TDD and primary cell frame structure type 1,

\- ![](media/image247.wmf){width="0.44166666666666665in"
height="0.19166666666666668in"} and
![](media/image248.wmf){width="0.49166666666666664in" height="0.275in"}
for subframe-PUCCH,

\- ![](media/image247.wmf){width="0.44166666666666665in"
height="0.19166666666666668in"} and
![](media/image249.wmf){width="0.4666666666666667in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"}for slot-PUCCH if the TPC command is
received in a slot and the TPC command  is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH
with DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G,

\- ![](media/image247.wmf){width="0.44166666666666665in"
height="0.19166666666666668in"} and
![](media/image250.wmf){width="0.5583333333333333in"
height="0.275in"}when the TPC command is received in a subslot and the
TPC command  is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G,

\- ![](media/image251.wmf){width="0.45in" height="0.2in"}for slot-PUCCH
if the TPC command is received in a subslot and the TPC command  is
included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G and
![](media/image252.wmf){width="0.4083333333333333in" height="0.25in"}
corresponds to the index of the three last subslots sent at the latest
![](media/image253.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25833333333333336in"}
subslots earlier than the start of the slot-PUCCH.

\- For a slot/subslot-PUCCH transmission in slot/subslot *i* of subframe
*I* corresponding to a slot/subslot-PDSCH transmission without a
corresponding PDCCH/SPDCCH, the UE shall use the provided in the PDCCH
with DCI format 3/3A received in a subframe not later than subframe *I*
- 4 when configured by higher layer *parameter
tpc-PDCCH-ConfigPUCCH-SPS.*

\- For TDD, values of and are given in Table 10.1.3.1-1C if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and the TPC command 
is included in a PDCCH/ SPDCCH with DCI format 7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G,
in Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the TPC command  is included in a PDCCH sent
in the UE-specific search space, and in Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise,
*where* the \"UL/DL configuration\" in Table 10.1.3.1-1 corresponds to
the *eimta-HARQ-ReferenceConfig-r12* for the primary cell *when the UE
is configured with the parameter EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for the
primary cell, or to *harq-ReferenceConfig-r14* for the primary cell when
the UE is configured with the parameter *harq-ReferenceConfig-r14. For a
slot-PUCCH transmission in slot i of subframe I corresponding to a
slot-PDSCH transmission without a corresponding PDCCH/SPDCCH, the UE
shall use the* *provided in the PDCCH with DCI format 3/3A received in
subframes not later than subframe I - k~m~ when configured by higher
layer parameter tpc-PDCCH-ConfigPUCCH-SPS,
where*![](media/image256.wmf){width="0.23472222222222222in"
height="0.17430555555555555in"} and
![](media/image257.wmf){width="0.21180555555555555in"
height="0.25763888888888886in"} are given in Table 10.1.3.1-1.

\- The dB values signalled on PDCCH with DCI format
1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D or EPDCCH with DCI format
1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2/2B/2C/2D or MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A or PDCCH/SPDCCH
with DCI format 7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G are given in Table 5.1.2.1-1. If
the PDCCH with DCI format 1/1A/2/2A/2B/2C/2D or EPDCCH with DCI format
1/1A/2A/2/2B/2C/2D or MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A or PDCCH/SPDCCH with
DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G is validated as an SPS
activation PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH, or the PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1A
or MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A or PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G is validated as an SPS release
PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH, then is 0dB.

\- The dB values signalled on PDCCH/MPDCCH with DCI format 3/3A are
given in Table 5.1.2.1-1 or in Table 5.1.2.1-2 as semi-statically
configured by higher layers.

\- If value is changed by higher layers, or if a BL/CE UE transmits
using preconfigured uplink resources,

\-

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* or if
there is a change in configuration corresponding to the higher layer
parameter *shortTTI*, for the first following slot/subslot-PUCCH
transmission in a given subframe is set to associated with PUCCH of the
previous uplink subframe.

\- Else

\- , where

\- is the TPC command indicated in the random access response
corresponding to the random access preamble transmitted in the primary
cell, see Clause 6.2 and

\- if UE is transmitting PUCCH in subframe *i*,

.

Otherwise,

> and is provided by higher layers and corresponds to the total power
> ramp-up requested by higher layers from the first to the last preamble
> in the primary cell. A UE configured with *ul-ConfigInfo-r14,* the UE
> shall assume $\Delta P_{\text{rampuprequested}} = \delta_{msg2} = 0$

\- If UE has reached for the primary cell, positive TPC commands for the
primary cell shall not be accumulated.

\- If UE has reached minimum power, negative TPC commands shall not be
accumulated.

\- UE shall reset accumulation

\- when value is changed by higher layers

\- when the UE receives a random access response message for the primary
cell

\- when the UE performs PUSCH transmission using preconfigured uplink
resource

\- if is not an uplink subframe/slot in TDD or FDD-TDD and primary cell
frame structure type 2.

For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, if the PUCCH, or multiple PUCCHs
corresponding to PDSCHs scheduling by one DCI, are transmitted in more
than one subframe *i~0~*, *i~1~*, ..., *i~N-1~* where *i~0~*\< *i~1~*\<
...\< *i~N-1~*, the PUCCH(s) transmit power in subframe *i~k~* , *k*=0,
1, ..., *N*-1is determined by

For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeB, the PUCCH transmit power in
subframe *i~k~* is determined by

Table 5.1.2.1-1: Mapping of TPC Command Field in DCI format
1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2B/2C/2D/2/3/6-1A/7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G to values

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
| TPC Command Field in                                              | \[dB\] |
|                                                                   |        |
| DCI format 1A/1B/1D/1/2A/2B/2C/2D/2/3/6-1A/7-1A/1B/1C/1D/1E/1F/1G |        |
+===================================================================+========+
| 0                                                                 | -1     |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
| 1                                                                 | 0      |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
| 2                                                                 | 1      |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
| 3                                                                 | 3      |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+

Table 5.1.2.1-2: Mapping of TPC Command Field in DCI format 3A to values

+----------------------+--------+
| TPC Command Field in | \[dB\] |
|                      |        |
| DCI format 3A        |        |
+======================+========+
| 0                    | -1     |
+----------------------+--------+
| 1                    | 1      |
+----------------------+--------+

### 5.1.3 Sounding Reference Symbol (SRS)

#### 5.1.3.1 UE behaviour

The setting of the UE Transmit power for the SRS transmitted on subframe
*i* for serving cell is defined by:

for SRS transmission given trigger type 2 or for serving cell with frame
structure type 2, and not configured for PUSCH/PUCCH transmission

\[dBm\]

otherwise

\[dBm\]

where

\- is the configured UE transmit power defined in \[6\] in subframe *i*
for serving cell .

\- is semi-statically configured by higher layers for *m=0* and *m=1*
for serving cell . For SRS transmission given trigger type 0 then *m=0*
and for SRS transmission given trigger type 1 then *m=1*.

\- is the bandwidth of the SRS transmission in subframe *i* for serving
cell expressed in number of resource blocks.

\- is the current PUSCH power control adjustment state for serving cell
, see Clause 5.1.1.1.

\- and are parameters as defined in Clause 5.1.1.1 for subframe , where
.

\- is the higher layer parameter *alpha-SRS* for SRS transmission given
trigger type 0, 1, or is the higher layer parameter *alphaSRS-Add* for
SRS transmission given trigger type 2, configured by higher layers for
serving cell .

> \- is a parameter composed of the sum of a component which is
> *p0-Nominal-PeriodicSRS,* *p0-Nominal-AperiodicSRS*, or
> *p0-NominalSRS-Add* provided from higher layers for *m=0,* *1* or *2*
> respectively, and a component which is *p0-UE-PeriodicSRS,*
> *p0-UE-AperiodicSRS*, or *p0-UE-SRS-Add* provided by higher layers for
> *m=0,* *1* or *2* respectively, for serving cell . For SRS
> transmission given trigger type 0 then *m=0* and for SRS transmission
> given trigger type 1 then *m=1* and for SRS transmission given trigger
> type 2 then *m=2*.
>
> \- For SRS transmission given trigger type 2 or for serving cell with
> frame structure type 2, and not configured for PUSCH/PUCCH
> transmission, the current SRS power control adjustment state is given
> by and is defined by:

\- if accumulation is enabled, and if accumulation is not enabled based
on higher layer parameter *accumulation-Enabled*, for SRS transmission
given trigger type 0 or 1, or for higher layer parameter
*accumulationEnabled-additionalSRS* given trigger type 2, where

\- is a correction value, also referred to as a SRS TPC command
signalled on PDCCH with DCI format 3 or 3A for SRS transmission given
trigger type 2, or DCI format 3B for SRS transmission for trigger type
0, 1, 2 SRS in the most recent subframe , where .

\- The UE is not expected to receive different SRS TPC command values
for serving cell in the same subframe for SRS transmission given trigger
type 0, or 1.

\- The UE is not expected to receive different SRS TPC command values
for serving cell in the same subframe for SRS transmission given trigger
type 2.

\- The UE attempts to decode a PDCCH of DCI format 3B with CRC scrambled
by higher layer parameter *srs-TPC-RNTI-r14*in every subframe except
where serving cell is deactivated.

\- The UE attempts to decode a PDCCH of DCI format 3 or 3A with CRC
scrambled by higher layer parameter *TPC-PUSCH-RNTI* in every subframe
except where service cell is deactivated.

\- dB for a subframe where no TPC command in PDCCH with DCI format
3/3A/3B is decoded for serving cell or *i* is not an uplink/special
subframe in TDD or FDD-TDD and serving cell c frame structure type 2.

\- If higher layer parameter *fieldTypeFormat3B or
fieldTypeFormat3B-SRS-Add indicates 2-bit TPC command, t*he dB values
signalled on PDCCH with DCI format 3B are given in Table 5.1.1.1-2 by
replacing with , or if higher layer parameter *fieldTypeFormat3B or
fieldTypeFormat3B-SRS-Add indicates 1-bit TPC command, the* dB values
signalled on PDCCH with DCI format 3B are given in Table 5.1.1.1-3 by
replacing with .

\- The dB values signalled on PDCCH with DCI format 3 are given in Table
5.1.1.1-2 by replacing with , and t*he* dB values signalled on PDCCH
with DCI format 3A are given in Table 5.1.1.1-3 by replacing with .

\- If accumulation is enabled, is the first value after reset of
accumulation. The UE shall reset accumulation

\- For serving cell , when value is changed by higher layers

\- For serving cell , when the UE receives random access response
message for serving cell .

\- For both types of (accumulation or current absolute) the first value
is set as follows:

\- If value is received by higher layers

\-

\- else

\- if the UE receives the random access response message for a serving
cell

\- , where

is the TPC command indicated in the random access response corresponding
to the random access preamble transmitted in the serving cell , see
Clause 6.2, and and is provided by higher layers and corresponds to the
total power ramp-up requested by higher layers from the first to the
last preamble in the serving cell , is the bandwidth of the SRS
transmission expressed in number of resource blocks valid for the
subframe of first SRS transmission in the serving cell .

If the UE is not configured with an SCG or a PUCCH-SCell, and if *the
total transmit power of the UE* for the Sounding Reference Symbol in an
SC-FDMA symbol *would exceed , the UE scales for the serving cell and
the SC-FDMA symbol in subframe i such that the condition*

*is satisfied where is the linear value of , is the linear value of
defined in \[6\] in subframe i and is a scaling factor of for serving
cell where . Note thatvalues are the same across serving cells.*

If the UE is not configured with an SCG or a PUCCH-SCell, and *if the UE
is configured with multiple TAGs and the SRS transmission of the UE in
an SC-FDMA symbol for a serving cell in subframe* in a TAG overlaps with
the SRS transmission in another SC-FDMA symbol in subframe for a serving
cell in another TAG, and if *the total transmit power of the UE* for the
Sounding Reference Symbol in the overlapped portion *would exceed , the
UE scales for the serving cell and each of the overlapped SRS SC-FDMA
symbols in subframe* *such that the condition*

*is satisfied for all the overlapped SRS SC-FDMA symbol(s) in subframe*
*where is the linear value of , is the transmit power of SRS trigger
type 2 or trigger type 0/1 in subframe* for serving cell , *is the
linear value of defined in \[6\] in subframe i and is a scaling factor
of for serving cell where . Note thatvalues are the same across serving
cells.*

If the UE is configured with a LAA SCell for uplink transmissions, the
UE may compute the *scaling factor* assuming that the UE performs a SRS
transmission on the LAA SCell in subframe *i irrespective of whether the
UE can access the LAA SCell for the SRS* transmission in subframe *i
according to the* channel access procedures described in Clause 4.2.1 of
\[13\].

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*UplinkPowerControlDedicated-v12x0* for serving cell and if subframe
belongs to uplink power control subframe set 2 as indicated by the
higher layer parameter *tpc-SubframeSet-r12,* the UE shall use instead
of to determine for subframe *i* and serving cell , where is defined in
Clause 5.1.1.1.

#### 5.1.3.2 Power headroom for Type3 report

The UE is not expected to compute a Type 3 report on a slot/subslot.

For SRS transmission given trigger type 2, or for serving cell with
frame structure type 2 and not configured for PUSCH/PUCCH transmission,

\- if the UE transmits SRS in subframe for serving cell , or if the UE
does not transmit SRS in subframe $i$ due to a collision with a higher
priority physical channel or signal (as defined in Clause 8.2) in
subframe$\ i + 1$, and the UE would have transmitted the SRS in subframe
$i$ had the higher priority physical channel or signal in subframe
$i + 1$ not occurred, power headroom for a Type 3 report is computed
using

> \[dB\]

where is defined in Clause 5.1.1.1. , , ,, are defined in Clause
5.1.3.1.

\- otherwise, power headroom for a Type 3 report is computed using

> \[dB\]

where is defined in Clause 5.1.1.1., ,, are defined in Clause 5.1.3.1.
is computed based on the requirements in \[6\] assuming a SRS
transmission in subframe , and assuming MPR=0dB, A-MPR=0dB, P-MPR=0dB
and ∆T~C~ =0dB. MPR, A-MPR, P-MPR and ∆T~C~ are defined in \[6\]. For
this case, the physical layer delivers instead of to higher layers.

### 5.1.4 Power allocation for EUTRA dual connectivity

If a UE is configured with multiple cell groups, the UE is not expected
to be configured with SRS trigger type 2, and

\- if the UE supports synchronous dual connectivity but does not support
asynchronous dual connectivity, or if the UE supports both synchronous
dual connectivity and asynchronous dual connectivity and if the higher
layer parameter *powerControlMode* indicates dual connectivity power
control mode 1

\- if the maximum uplink timing difference between transmitted signals
to different serving cells including serving cells belonging to
different CGs is equal to or less than the minimum requirement for
maximum transmission timing difference for synchronous dual connectivity
defined in \[10\].

\- The UE shall use the procedures described in sub clause 5.1.4.1.

\- If a PRACH transmission of the UE on the Pcell starting in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of MCG overlaps in time domain with
another PRACH transmission of the UE starting in subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of SCG, and if subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} and subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
overlap in time with more than one symbol, and if the total power of
both the PRACH transmissions would exceed
![](media/image318.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
height="0.28125in"}, the UE shall transmit the PRACH on the Pcell using
the preamble transmission power
![](media/image319.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.25in"}described in Clause 6.1. The UE may drop or adjust the
power of the PRACH transmission in subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of SCG such that the total power does not exceed
![](media/image318.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
height="0.28125in"}, where
![](media/image318.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
height="0.28125in"}is the linear value configured transmitted power for
Dual Connectivity for the subframe pair
![](media/image320.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}as described in \[6\]. If the UE drops
the PRACH transmission, it sends power ramping suspension indicator to
the higher layers. If the UE adjusts the power of PRACH transmission, it
may send power ramping suspension indicator to the higher layers.

\- if the UE supports both synchronous dual connectivity and
asynchronous dual connectivity and if the higher layer parameter
***powerControlMode*** does not indicate dual connectivity power control
mode 1

\- The UE shall use the procedures described in sub clause 5.1.4.2 .

\- If a PRACH transmission on the Pcell in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of MCG overlaps in time another PRACH
transmission in subframe ![](media/image321.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of SCG, and if the time difference
between the start of the two PRACH transmissions is less than
![](media/image322.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.25in"},
and if the transmission timing of the PRACH on the Pcell (according to
Clause 6.1.1) is such that the UE is ready to transmit the PRACH on
Pcell at least one subframe before subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of MCG, and if the total power of both
the PRACH transmissions exceeds
![](media/image318.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
height="0.28125in"}, the UE shall transmit the PRACH on the Pcell using
the preamble transmission power P~PRACH~ described in Clause 6.1. The UE
may drop or adjust the power of the PRACH transmission in subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of SCG such that the total power does not exceed
![](media/image318.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
height="0.28125in"}, where
![](media/image318.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
height="0.28125in"}is the linear value configured transmitted power for
Dual Connectivity for the subframe pair
![](media/image320.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}as described in \[6\]. If the UE drops
the PRACH transmissions, it sends power ramping suspension indicator to
the higher layers. If the UE adjusts the power of PRACH transmission, it
may send power ramping suspension indicator to the higher layers.

#### 5.1.4.1 Dual connectivity power control Mode 1

If the UE PUSCH/PUCCH transmission(s) in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1 overlap in time with PUSCH/PUCCH
transmission(s) in more than one symbol of subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2 or if at least the last symbol the
UE PUSCH/PUCCH transmission(s) in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1 overlap in time with SRS
transmission(s) of subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}, and

\- if the UE has a PUCCH/PUSCH transmission with UCI including
HARQ-ACK/SR in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1: *I*f the UE has a PUCCH
transmission with UCI including HARQ-ACK/SR in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1 *and if*
![](media/image323.wmf){width="0.96875in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
would exceed ![](media/image324.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}, the UE scales
![](media/image325.wmf){width="0.96875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}such that the condition
![](media/image326.wmf){width="2.5416666666666665in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is satisfied where
![](media/image327.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.21875in"}
and ![](media/image328.wmf){width="2.6145833333333335in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}. If
![](media/image323.wmf){width="0.96875in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
would not exceed ![](media/image324.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.21875in"},
![](media/image329.wmf){width="2.1354166666666665in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}. If the UE has a PUSCH transmission with
UCI including HARQ-ACK in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell
![](media/image330.wmf){width="0.625in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}*, and if*
![](media/image331.wmf){width="0.8125in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
would exceed![](media/image332.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}, the UE scales
![](media/image333.wmf){width="0.8125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}such that the condition
![](media/image334.wmf){width="2.375in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
is satisfied where ![](media/image327.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in"
height="0.21875in"} and ![](media/image335.wmf){width="2.28125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}. If
![](media/image331.wmf){width="0.8125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}would not exceed
![](media/image324.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.21875in"},
![](media/image336.wmf){width="1.8020833333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.\
![](media/image332.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in" height="0.21875in"}
is determined as follows
![](media/image337.wmf){width="5.510416666666667in"
height="1.0208333333333333in"};\
where

\- ![](media/image338.wmf){width="1.5416666666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"};

\- if CG1 is MCG and CG2 is SCG,

\- ![](media/image339.wmf){width="1.625in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"};

\- ![](media/image340.wmf){width="4.020833333333333in"
height="0.46875in"};

\- if CG1 is SCG and CG2 is MCG

\- if the UE has a PUCCH transmission with UCI including HARQ-ACK/SR
subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2,

\- ![](media/image341.wmf){width="2.8125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"};

\- ![](media/image342.wmf){width="2.84375in" height="0.46875in"}

\- else if the UE has a PUSCH transmission with UCI including HARQ-ACK
in subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell
![](media/image343.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}*,*

\- ![](media/image344.wmf){width="2.6875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"};

\- ![](media/image345.wmf){width="3.0416666666666665in"
height="0.4583333333333333in"};

\- otherwise,

\- ![](media/image346.wmf){width="1.625in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"};

\- ![](media/image347.wmf){width="3.9375in" height="0.46875in"}

\- if the UE has a PUCCH/PUSCH transmission with UCI not including
HARQ-ACK/SR in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1: If the UE has a PUCCH
transmission with UCI not including HARQ-ACK/SR in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1 *and if*
![](media/image323.wmf){width="0.96875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}would exceed
![](media/image348.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}, the UE scales
![](media/image325.wmf){width="0.96875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}such that the condition
![](media/image349.wmf){width="2.5625in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is satisfied where
![](media/image350.wmf){width="0.9583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
and ![](media/image351.wmf){width="2.6666666666666665in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}. If
![](media/image323.wmf){width="0.96875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}would not exceed
![](media/image352.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"},
![](media/image329.wmf){width="2.1354166666666665in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}. If the UE has a PUSCH transmission with
UCI not including HARQ-ACK in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell
![](media/image330.wmf){width="0.625in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}*, and if*
![](media/image331.wmf){width="0.8125in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
would exceed![](media/image353.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}, the UE scales
![](media/image333.wmf){width="0.8125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}such that the condition
![](media/image354.wmf){width="2.40625in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
is satisfied where ![](media/image355.wmf){width="0.9583333333333334in"
height="0.21875in"} and
![](media/image356.wmf){width="2.3333333333333335in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}. I*f*
![](media/image331.wmf){width="0.8125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}would not exceed
![](media/image357.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"},
![](media/image336.wmf){width="1.8020833333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.\
![](media/image353.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}is determined as follows\
![](media/image358.wmf){width="5.322916666666667in"
height="0.9791666666666666in"}

where

\- ![](media/image359.wmf){width="2.7395833333333335in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}if the UE has a PUCCH transmission with
HARQ-ACK/SR and a PUSCH transmission with UCI not including HARQ-ACK in
subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1, otherwise,
![](media/image360.wmf){width="1.5833333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.

\- if CG1 is MCG and CG2 is SCG

\- if the UE has a PUCCH transmission with UCI including HARQ-ACK/SR in
subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2,

\- ![](media/image361.wmf){width="2.8854166666666665in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}

\- ![](media/image362.wmf){width="2.875in" height="0.46875in"};

\- else if the UE has a PUSCH transmission with UCI including HARQ-ACK
in subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell
![](media/image343.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"},

\- ![](media/image363.wmf){width="2.6875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}

\- ![](media/image364.wmf){width="3.0833333333333335in"
height="0.4583333333333333in"};

\- otherwise,

\- ![](media/image365.wmf){width="1.6354166666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}

\- ![](media/image366.wmf){width="3.9791666666666665in"
height="0.46875in"}

\- if CG1 is SCG and CG2 is MCG

\- if the UE has a PUCCH transmission in subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2 and/or a PUSCH transmission with
UCI in in subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell
![](media/image343.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}

\- ![](media/image367.wmf){width="3.8645833333333335in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}

\- ![](media/image368.wmf){width="3.0833333333333335in"
height="0.4583333333333333in"}\
where, ![](media/image369.wmf){width="1.2708333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}if the UE *does not have a* PUCCH
transmission in subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2;
![](media/image370.wmf){width="1.1145833333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}if the UE does not have a PUSCH
transmission with UCI in subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2*;*

\- otherwise

\- ![](media/image371.wmf){width="1.6354166666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}

\- ![](media/image372.wmf){width="2.875in" height="0.46875in"}

\- If the UE has PUSCH transmission(s) without UCI in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG1, the UE shall determine\
![](media/image373.wmf){width="5.520833333333333in"
height="1.0208333333333333in"}\
where

\- if the UE has a PUCCH transmission in subframe
![](media/image374.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG1 and/or a PUSCH transmission with
UCI in in subframe ![](media/image375.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell
![](media/image376.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}![](media/image377.wmf){width="3.7395833333333335in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"},\
where ![](media/image378.wmf){width="1.21875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} if the UE *does not have a* PUCCH
transmission in subframe ![](media/image379.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of
CG1,![](media/image380.wmf){width="1.0833333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}if the UE does not have a PUSCH
transmission with UCI in subframe
![](media/image381.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG1;
otherwise![](media/image382.wmf){width="1.5833333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}*;*

\- if CG1 is MCG and CG2 is SCG

\- if the UE has a PUCCH transmission in subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2 and/or a PUSCH transmission with
UCI in in subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell
![](media/image343.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}

\- ![](media/image383.wmf){width="3.9166666666666665in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}

\- ![](media/image384.wmf){width="3.0416666666666665in"
height="0.4583333333333333in"}\
where, ![](media/image369.wmf){width="1.2708333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}if the UE *does not have a* PUCCH
transmission in subframe ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2;
![](media/image370.wmf){width="1.1145833333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}if the UE does not have a PUSCH
transmission with UCI in subframe
![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2*;*

\- otherwise

\- ![](media/image385.wmf){width="1.625in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}

\- ![](media/image386.wmf){width="2.8541666666666665in"
height="0.46875in"};

\- if CG1 is SCG and CG2 is MCG

\- ![](media/image387.wmf){width="4.166666666666667in"
height="0.4166666666666667in"}

\- ![](media/image388.wmf){width="1.6666666666666667in"
height="0.46875in"};

\- If the total transmit power of all the PUSCH transmission(s) without
UCI in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG1 would exceed
![](media/image389.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}, the UE scales
![](media/image390.wmf){width="0.8020833333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}for each serving cell
![](media/image391.wmf){width="0.625in" height="0.23958333333333334in"}
with a PUSCH transmission without UCI in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} such that the
condition![](media/image392.wmf){width="2.5625in"
height="0.4166666666666667in"} is satisfied, where
![](media/image393.wmf){width="2.1875in" height="0.2916666666666667in"},
and where ![](media/image394.wmf){width="0.3854166666666667in"
height="0.21875in"} is a scaling factor of
![](media/image395.wmf){width="0.7916666666666666in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}for serving cell
![](media/image396.wmf){width="0.17708333333333334in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} where
![](media/image397.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
height="0.21875in"}. Note
that![](media/image398.wmf){width="0.3854166666666667in"
height="0.21875in"}values are the same across serving cells within a
cell group when![](media/image399.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in"
height="0.21875in"}but for certain serving cells within the cell group
![](media/image400.wmf){width="0.3854166666666667in"
height="0.21875in"}may be zero. If the total transmit power of all the
PUSCH transmission(s) without UCI in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG1 would not exceed
![](media/image389.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"},
![](media/image401.wmf){width="1.7708333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.

where

\- ![](media/image318.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
height="0.28125in"}is the linear value of configured transmitted power
for Dual Connectivity for the subframe pair
![](media/image320.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}as described in \[6\];

\- if CG1 is MCG and CG2 is SCG

\- ![](media/image402.wmf){width="0.9479166666666666in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of
![](media/image403.wmf){width="0.71875in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}corresponding to PUCCH transmission on the
primary cell ; ![](media/image404.wmf){width="0.96875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of
![](media/image405.wmf){width="0.7395833333333334in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}corresponding to PUCCH transmission on the
PSCell.

\- ![](media/image406.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.25in"};

\- if CG1 is SCG and CG2 is MCG;

\- ![](media/image407.wmf){width="0.9479166666666666in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of
![](media/image403.wmf){width="0.71875in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}corresponding to PUCCH transmission on the
PSCell; ![](media/image408.wmf){width="0.96875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of
![](media/image409.wmf){width="0.7395833333333334in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}corresponding to PUCCH transmission on the
primary cell.

\- ![](media/image410.wmf){width="0.7916666666666666in"
height="0.25in"};

\- ![](media/image411.wmf){width="0.8020833333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is the linear value of
![](media/image412.wmf){width="0.8020833333333334in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}for subframe
![](media/image374.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell of serving cell
![](media/image330.wmf){width="0.625in" height="0.23958333333333334in"},
and ![](media/image413.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is the linear value of
![](media/image414.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} for subframe
![](media/image415.wmf){width="0.17708333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of serving cell of serving cell
![](media/image416.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}.

\- ![](media/image417.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in"
height="0.25in"}and ![](media/image418.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.25in"}are given by Table 5.1.4.2-1 according to higher layer
parameters p-MeNB and p-SeNB respectively;

\- If the UE has a PRACH transmission for CG1 overlapping with subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1,
![](media/image419.wmf){width="0.9583333333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is the linear value of the transmission
power of that PRACH transmission; otherwise,
![](media/image420.wmf){width="1.2083333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"};

\- If the UE has a PRACH transmission for CG2 overlapping with subframe
![](media/image421.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of CG2, ![](media/image422.wmf){width="1.0208333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is the linear value of the transmission
power of that PRACH transmission; otherwise,
![](media/image423.wmf){width="1.2604166666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.

\- ![](media/image424.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"} is determined as follows

\- if the PUSCH/PUCCH is not transmitted in the last symbol of subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1, or if the UE does not have an
SRS transmission in subframe ![](media/image425.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image426.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.25in"}or
if the UE drops SRS transmission in subframe
![](media/image425.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of serving cell ![](media/image426.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.25in"} due to collision with PUCCH in subframe
![](media/image425.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of serving cell ![](media/image426.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}

\- ![](media/image427.wmf){width="0.9479166666666666in"
height="0.34375in"};

\- if the UE has an SRS transmission and does not have a PUCCH/PUSCH
transmission in subframe ![](media/image425.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image426.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.25in"}

\- ![](media/image428.wmf){width="1.5in" height="0.3333333333333333in"};

\- if the UE has an SRS transmission and a has PUCCH transmission, and
does not have a PUSCH transmission in subframe
![](media/image425.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of serving cell ![](media/image426.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}

\- ![](media/image429.wmf){width="3.0833333333333335in"
height="0.5833333333333334in"}

\- if the UE has an SRS transmission and a has PUSCH transmission, and
does not have a PUCCH transmission in subframe
![](media/image425.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of serving cell ![](media/image426.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}

\- ![](media/image430.wmf){width="2.9166666666666665in"
height="0.5833333333333334in"}

\- if the UE has an SRS transmission and has a PUSCH transmission and a
PUCCH transmission in in subframe
![](media/image425.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of serving cell ![](media/image426.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}

\- ![](media/image431.wmf){width="4.041666666666667in"
height="0.5833333333333334in"}

If *the total transmit power* for the Sounding Reference Symbol in an
SC-FDMA symbol *across all the serving cells within a TAG of a cell
group CG1 would
exceed*![](media/image432.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}*, the UE scales*
![](media/image433.wmf){width="0.65625in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}*for the serving cell*
![](media/image434.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in"
height="0.25in"}*and the SC-FDMA symbol in subframe*
![](media/image435.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} *such that the condition*
![](media/image436.wmf){width="1.8645833333333333in"
height="0.4166666666666667in"}

*is satisfied, where*
![](media/image437.wmf){width="1.8645833333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the transmission power of SRS after
scaling *and where* ![](media/image433.wmf){width="0.65625in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} *is the linear value of*
![](media/image438.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.25in"}*described in
Clause 5.1.3.1, and*![](media/image439.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} *is a scaling factor of*
![](media/image433.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
*for serving cell* ![](media/image434.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in"
height="0.25in"} *where*
![](media/image440.wmf){width="0.7708333333333334in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}*. Note
that*![](media/image441.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}*values are the same across serving cells
within the same CG.*

*If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs within CG1 and the SRS
transmission of the UE in an SC-FDMA symbol for a serving cell in
subframe* ![](media/image435.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}in a TAG belonging to CG1 overlaps with
the SRS transmission in another SC-FDMA symbol in subframe
![](media/image442.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}for a serving cell in another TAG
belonging to CG1, and if *the total transmit power of the UE* for the
Sounding Reference Symbol in the overlapped portion *would exceed*
![](media/image432.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}*, the UE scales*
![](media/image433.wmf){width="0.65625in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}*for the serving cell*
![](media/image434.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in" height="0.25in"}
*and each of the overlapped SRS SC-FDMA symbols in subframe*
![](media/image443.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} *such that the condition*
![](media/image436.wmf){width="1.8645833333333333in"
height="0.4166666666666667in"} *is satisfied, where*
![](media/image437.wmf){width="1.8645833333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the transmission power of SRS after
scaling, and *where*
![](media/image444.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in" height="0.21875in"}
*is a scaling factor of*
![](media/image445.wmf){width="0.6458333333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}*for serving cell*
![](media/image396.wmf){width="0.17708333333333334in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} *where*
![](media/image446.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.21875in"}*. Note
that*![](media/image447.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in"
height="0.21875in"}*values are the same across serving cells within a
cell group.*

![](media/image432.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.21875in"}
*is determined as follows*

![](media/image448.wmf){width="4.958333333333333in"
height="1.0208333333333333in"}

where

\- if CG1 is MCG and CG2 is SCG

\- ![](media/image449.wmf){width="4.15625in"
height="0.4583333333333333in"}

\- ![](media/image450.wmf){width="1.6770833333333333in"
height="0.4166666666666667in"}

\- if CG1 is SCG and CG2 is MCG

\- ![](media/image451.wmf){width="5.375in"
height="0.4583333333333333in"}

\- ![](media/image452.wmf){width="0.84375in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}

\- if the UE has no PUCCH transmission or has a shortened PUCCH
transmission in subframe ![](media/image453.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2,
![](media/image454.wmf){width="1.375in" height="0.3333333333333333in"};
otherwise ![](media/image455.wmf){width="2.3541666666666665in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"}

\- if the UE has no PUSCH transmission in the last symbol of subframe
![](media/image453.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of serving cell ![](media/image456.wmf){width="0.6770833333333334in"
height="0.25in"}, ![](media/image457.wmf){width="1.1875in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"};
otherwise![](media/image458.wmf){width="1.96875in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"}

\- if the UE has PRACH transmission in CG2 that overlaps with the last
symbol of subframe ![](media/image453.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2,
![](media/image459.wmf){width="2.125in" height="0.3333333333333333in"};
otherwise ![](media/image460.wmf){width="1.25in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"}

For both cell groups

\- if the PUCCH/PUSCH transmission of the UE on subframe for a given
serving cell in a TAG of CG1 overlaps some portion of the first symbol
of the PUSCH transmission on subframe for a different serving cell in
another TAG of CG1 and/or overlaps with the PUCCH/PUSCH transmission on
subframe for a serving cell in another TAG of CG2, the UE shall adjust
its total transmission power of all CGs such that the total transmission
power of the UE across all CGs does not exceed
![](media/image464.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}on
any overlapped portion.

\- if the PUSCH transmission of the UE on subframe for a given serving
cell in a TAG of CG1 overlaps some portion of the first symbol of the
PUCCH transmission on subframe for a different serving cell in another
TAG of CG1 and/or overlaps with the PUCCH/PUSCH transmission on subframe
for a serving cell in another TAG of CG2, the UE shall adjust its total
transmission power of all CGs such that the total transmission power of
the UE across all CGs does not exceed
![](media/image464.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}on
any overlapped portion.

\- if the SRS transmission of the UE in a symbol on subframe for a given
serving cell in a TAG of CG1 overlaps with the PUCCH/PUSCH transmission
on subframe or subframe for a different serving cell in the same or
another TAG of CG1 and/or overlaps with the PUCCH/PUSCH transmission on
subframe for a serving cell of CG2, the UE shall drop the SRS in CG1 if
its total transmission power across all CGs exceeds
![](media/image464.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"} on
any overlapped portion of the symbol.

\- if the SRS transmission of the UE in a symbol on subframe for a given
serving cell in CG1 overlaps with the SRS transmission on subframe for a
different serving cell(s) in CG1 or overlaps with SRS transmission on
subframe for a serving cell(s) in CG2, and if the SRS transmissions
overlap with PUSCH/PUCCH transmission on subframe or subframe for
another serving cell(s) in CG1, and/or if the SRS transmissions overlap
with PUSCH/PUCCH transmission on subframe for a serving cell of CG2, the
UE shall drop the SRS transmissions in CG1 if its total transmission
power across all CGs exceeds
![](media/image464.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"} on
any overlapped portion of the symbol.

\- UE shall, when requested by higher layers, to transmit PRACH on
subframe or subframe in a secondary serving cell in CG1 and/or to
transmit PRACH on subframe in a serving cell in CG2 in parallel with SRS
transmission in a symbol on subframe of a different serving cell
belonging to a different TAG of CG1, drop SRS in CG1 if its total
transmission power across all CGs exceeds
![](media/image464.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"} on
any overlapped portion of the symbol.

\- UE shall, when requested by higher layers, to transmit PRACH on
subframe in a secondary serving cell in CG1 and/or to transmit PRACH on
subframe in a serving cell in CG2 in parallel with PUSCH/PUCCH on
subframe in a different serving cell belonging to a different TAG of
CG1, adjust the transmission power of PUSCH/PUCCH in CG1 so that the
total transmission power of the UE across all CGs does not exceed
![](media/image464.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}on
the overlapped portion.

#### 5.1.4.2 Dual connectivity power control Mode 2

If subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1 overlaps in time with subframe
![](media/image466.wmf){width="0.3958333333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} and subframe
![](media/image467.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2, and if the UE has transmission(s)
in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1,

\- i*f* the UE determines based on higher layer signalling that
transmission(s) in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1 cannot overlap in time with
transmission(s) in subframe ![](media/image467.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG2, the UE shall determine

\- Otherwise, the UE shall determine

![](media/image469.wmf){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="1.5416666666666667in"}.

*where,*

\- ![](media/image470.wmf){width="3.59375in"
height="0.4270833333333333in"}

\- ![](media/image471.wmf){width="1.0520833333333333in"
height="0.28125in"}is the *linear value of* configured transmitted power
for Dual Connectivity for the subframe pair
![](media/image472.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}, as described in \[6\];

\- ![](media/image473.wmf){width="1.0416666666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}, if the UE does not have a PUSCH
transmission in serving cell
![](media/image474.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"};

\- ![](media/image475.wmf){width="1.2083333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} if the UE does not have a PUCCH
transmission in CG1;

\- ![](media/image476.wmf){width="1.0416666666666667in"
height="0.28125in"}if the UE has no transmission of PUCCH, PUSCH, or SRS
in subframe ![](media/image477.wmf){width="0.3958333333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG2;

\- ![](media/image478.wmf){width="0.7916666666666666in" height="0.25in"}
, and ![](media/image479.wmf){width="0.7916666666666666in"
height="0.25in"} if CG1 is MCG and CG2 is SCG;

\- ![](media/image480.wmf){width="0.7916666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}, and
![](media/image481.wmf){width="0.8541666666666666in" height="0.25in"},
if CG1 is SCG and CG2 is MCG;

\- ![](media/image417.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in"
height="0.25in"}and ![](media/image418.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.25in"}are given by Table 5.1.4.2-1 according to higher layer
parameters *p-MeNB* and *p-SeNB* respectively;

\- If the UE has a PRACH transmission for CG1 overlapping with subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG1,
![](media/image419.wmf){width="0.9583333333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is the linear value of the transmission
power of that PRACH transmission; otherwise,
![](media/image420.wmf){width="1.2083333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.

\- If the UE has a PRACH transmission for CG2 overlapping with subframe
![](media/image482.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
of CG2, and if the transmission timing of the PRACH transmission
(according to Clause 6.1.1) is such that the UE is ready to transmit the
PRACH at least one subframe before subframe
![](media/image483.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}of CG2,
![](media/image484.wmf){width="1.0208333333333333in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is the linear value of the transmission
power of that PRACH transmission; otherwise,
![](media/image485.wmf){width="1.2604166666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.

\- If the UE has a PRACH transmission for CG2 overlapping with subframe
![](media/image477.wmf){width="0.3958333333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of CG2, is the linear value of the
transmission power of that PRACH transmission; otherwise, .

\- ![](media/image488.wmf){width="0.625in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"} is determined as follows

\- if the UE does not have an SRS transmission in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image474.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}or if the UE drops the SRS transmission
in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image474.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}due to collision with a PUCCH
transmission in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image474.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}

\- ![](media/image489.wmf){width="0.875in" height="0.34375in"};

\- if the UE has an SRS transmission and does not have a PUCCH/PUSCH
transmission in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image474.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}

\- ![](media/image490.wmf){width="1.375in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"};

\- if the UE has an SRS transmission and a has PUCCH transmission, and
does not have a PUSCH transmission in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image474.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}

\-

\- if the UE has an SRS transmission and a has PUSCH transmission, and
does not have a PUCCH transmission in subframe
![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image474.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}

\-

\- if the UE has an SRS transmission and has a PUSCH transmission and a
PUCCH transmission in subframe ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} of serving cell
![](media/image474.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}

\-

where ![](media/image494.wmf){width="0.625in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is the linear value of
![](media/image495.wmf){width="0.625in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}described in Clause 5.1.3.1.

If ![](media/image496.wmf){width="0.875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}*would exceed*
![](media/image497.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"}, the UE scales
![](media/image498.wmf){width="0.9375in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
*such that the condition*
![](media/image499.wmf){width="1.9479166666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is satisfied *where*

\- if CG1 is MCG, ![](media/image500.wmf){width="0.875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of
![](media/image501.wmf){width="0.6458333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}corresponding to PUCCH transmission on
the primary cell, in case there is no PUCCH transmission in subframe *i*
on the primary cell ![](media/image502.wmf){width="1.125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.

\- if CG1 is SCG , ![](media/image503.wmf){width="0.875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of
![](media/image501.wmf){width="0.6458333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}corresponding to PUCCH transmission on
PSCell, in case there is no PUCCH transmission in subframe *i* on the
PSCell ![](media/image504.wmf){width="1.125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}.
![](media/image505.wmf){width="0.7291666666666666in" height="0.25in"} is
the linear value of ![](media/image506.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}

\- ![](media/image507.wmf){width="0.8541666666666666in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}is a scaling factor of
![](media/image496.wmf){width="0.875in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}.

If the UE has PUSCH transmission with UCI on serving cell
![](media/image508.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}*, and*
![](media/image509.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}*would exceed*
![](media/image497.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"} the UE scales
![](media/image510.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} *such that the condition*
![](media/image511.wmf){width="1.7916666666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}is satisfied where
![](media/image509.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of the PUSCH transmit
power for the cell with UCI, and
![](media/image512.wmf){width="0.8854166666666666in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}*is a scaling factor of*
![](media/image513.wmf){width="0.71875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}for serving cell
![](media/image508.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}.

If *the total transmit power across all the serving cells of a cell
group CG1 would exceed* ![](media/image514.wmf){width="0.5in"
height="0.28125in"}*, the UE scales*
![](media/image505.wmf){width="0.7291666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}*for the serving cell*
![](media/image515.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} *in subframe i such that the
condition*![](media/image516.wmf){width="3.0416666666666665in"
height="0.4479166666666667in"} *is satisfied;*
*and*![](media/image517.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} *is a scaling factor of*
![](media/image518.wmf){width="0.7291666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}*for serving cell*
![](media/image519.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.125in"} *where*
![](media/image520.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}*.*

If the UE has PUSCH transmission with UCI on serving cell
![](media/image508.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} and PUSCH without UCI in any of the
remaining serving cells belonging to CG1, and the total transmit power
across all the serving cells of CG1 would exceed
![](media/image521.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"}, the UE scales
![](media/image505.wmf){width="0.7291666666666666in" height="0.25in"}for
the serving cells belonging to CG1 without UCI in subframe *i* such that
the condition ![](media/image522.wmf){width="2.9479166666666665in"
height="0.3958333333333333in"} is satisfied;

where ![](media/image509.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the PUSCH transmit power for the cell
with UCI and![](media/image523.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}is a scaling factor of
![](media/image505.wmf){width="0.7291666666666666in" height="0.25in"}for
serving cell ![](media/image524.wmf){width="0.125in"
height="0.15625in"} without UCI. In this case, no power scaling is
applied to ![](media/image525.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}
unless![](media/image526.wmf){width="1.6666666666666667in"
height="0.3958333333333333in"} and the total transmit power across all
of the serving cells of the CG1 still would exceed
![](media/image527.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"}*.*

If the UE has simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH transmission with UCI on
serving cell![](media/image528.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} and PUSCH transmission without UCI in
any of the remaining serving cells belonging to CG1, and the total
transmit power across all the serving cells of the CG1 would exceed
![](media/image529.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"}, the UE
obtains ![](media/image505.wmf){width="0.7395833333333334in"
height="0.25in"}according to ![](media/image530.wmf){width="3.4375in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} and
![](media/image531.wmf){width="3.9166666666666665in"
height="0.4166666666666667in"}

*where*

\- if CG1 is MCG, ![](media/image500.wmf){width="0.875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of
![](media/image501.wmf){width="0.6458333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}corresponding to PUCCH transmission on
the primary cell.

\- if CG1 is SCG , ![](media/image503.wmf){width="0.875in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} is the linear value of
![](media/image501.wmf){width="0.6458333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}corresponding to PUCCH transmission on
PSCell.

*Note that*![](media/image517.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}*values are the same across serving cells
within a cell group when*![](media/image532.wmf){width="0.5in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}*but for certain serving cells within the
cell group* ![](media/image517.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}*may be zero.*

If *the total transmit power* for the Sounding Reference Symbol in an
SC-FDMA symbol *across all the serving cells within a TAG of a cell
group CG1 would exceed* ![](media/image514.wmf){width="0.5in"
height="0.28125in"}*, the UE scales*
![](media/image533.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"}*for the serving cell*
![](media/image515.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}*and the SC-FDMA symbol in subframe i
such that the condition*

![](media/image534.wmf){width="1.8020833333333333in"
height="0.4583333333333333in"}

*is satisfied where*
![](media/image535.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in" height="0.25in"}
*is the linear value of*
![](media/image536.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}*described in Clause 5.1.3.1,
and*![](media/image439.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} *is a scaling factor of*
![](media/image537.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in" height="0.25in"}
*for serving cell* ![](media/image515.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} *where*
![](media/image440.wmf){width="0.7708333333333334in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}*. Note
that*![](media/image441.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}*values are the same across serving cells
within the same CG.*

*If the UE is configured with multiple TAGs within CG1 and the SRS
transmission of the UE in an SC-FDMA symbol for a serving cell in
subframe* ![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in"
height="0.1875in"}in a TAG belonging to CG1 overlaps with the SRS
transmission in another SC-FDMA symbol in subframe
![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in"
height="0.1875in"}for a serving cell in another TAG belonging to CG1,
and if *the total transmit power of the UE* for the Sounding Reference
Symbol in the overlapped portion *would
exceed*![](media/image514.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"}*, the
UE scales* ![](media/image533.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.25in"}*for the serving cell*
![](media/image515.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} *and each of the overlapped SRS SC-FDMA
symbols in subframe*
![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.1875in"}
*such that the condition*

![](media/image539.wmf){width="1.8229166666666667in"
height="0.4583333333333333in"}

*is satisfied where*
![](media/image535.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in" height="0.25in"}
*is the linear value of*
![](media/image536.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} *described in Clause 5.1.3.1,
and*![](media/image540.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} *is a scaling factor of*
![](media/image537.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in" height="0.25in"}
*for serving cell* ![](media/image515.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} *where*
![](media/image440.wmf){width="0.7708333333333334in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}*. Note
that*![](media/image540.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}*values are the same across serving cells
within the same CG.*

For a cell group CG1

\- if the UE is configured with multiple TAGs within CG1, and if the
PUCCH/PUSCH transmission of the UE on subframe
![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.1875in"}
for a given serving cell in a TAG of CG1 overlaps some portion of the
first symbol of the PUSCH transmission on subframe
![](media/image541.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} for a different serving cell in another
TAG of CG1, the UE shall adjust its total transmission power of CG1 to
not exceed ![](media/image542.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.28125in"}on any overlapped portion.

\- if the UE is configured with multiple TAGs within CG1, and if the
PUSCH transmission of the UE on subframe
![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.1875in"}
for a given serving cell in a TAG of CG1 overlaps some portion of the
first symbol of the PUCCH transmission on subframe
![](media/image541.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} for a different serving cell in another
TAG of CG1 the UE shall adjust its total transmission power of CG1 to
not exceed ![](media/image543.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.28125in"}on any overlapped portion.

\- if the UE is configured with multiple TAGs within CG1, and if the SRS
transmission of the UE in a symbol on subframe
![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.1875in"}
for a given serving cell in a TAG of CG1 overlaps with the PUCCH/PUSCH
transmission on subframe
![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in"
height="0.1875in"}or subframe
![](media/image541.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} for a different serving cell in the same
or another TAG of CG1 the UE shall drop SRS if its total transmission
power of CG exceeds ![](media/image543.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.28125in"} on any overlapped portion of the symbol.

\- if the UE is configured with multiple TAGs within CG1 and more than 2
serving cells within CG1, and if the SRS transmission of the UE in a
symbol on subframe ![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in"
height="0.1875in"} for a given serving cell in the CG1 overlaps with the
SRS transmission on subframe
![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.1875in"}
for a different serving cell(s) in CG1 and with PUSCH/PUCCH transmission
on subframe ![](media/image538.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in"
height="0.1875in"}or subframe
![](media/image541.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} for another serving cell(s) in CG1, the
UE shall drop the SRS transmissions in CG1 if the total transmission
power of CG1 exceeds
![](media/image543.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.28125in"}on any overlapped portion of the symbol.

\- if the UE is configured with multiple TAGs within CG1, the UE shall,
when requested by higher layers, to transmit PRACH in a secondary
serving cell in CG1 in parallel with SRS transmission in a symbol on a
subframe of a different serving cell belonging to a different TAG of
CG1, drop SRS in CG1 if the total transmission power of CG1 exceeds
![](media/image543.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in" height="0.28125in"}
on any overlapped portion in the symbol.

\- if the UE is configured with multiple TAGs within CG1, the UE shall,
when requested by higher layers, to transmit PRACH in a secondary
serving cell in CG1 in parallel with PUSCH/PUCCH in a different serving
cell belonging to a different TAG in CG1, adjust the transmission power
of PUSCH/PUCCH in CG1 so that its total transmission power of CG1 does
not exceed ![](media/image543.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.28125in"}on the overlapped portion.

> Table 5.1.4.2-1: ![](media/image417.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in"
> height="0.25in"} (or
> ![](media/image418.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.25in"})
> values for determining power allocation for dual connectivity

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  p-MeNB\       ![](media/image417.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in" height="0.25in"}(or ![](media/image418.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.25in"}) Value (in %)
  (or p-SeNB)   
  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0             0

  1             5

  2             10

  3             15

  4             20

  5             30

  6             37

  7             44

  8             50

  9             56

  10            63

  11            70

  12            80

  13            90

  14            95

  15            100
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.1.4a Power allocation for dual active protocol stack

If a UE indicates a capability for dual active protocol stack based
handover (DAPS HO), the UE can be provided with a source MCG and a
target MCG.

If a UE is configured with a target MCG and a source MCG in different
bands, and the UE is configured with *DAPS-PowerCoordinationInfo*, the
UE shall apply the procedures described in clause 5.1.4 with the
following modifications

\- Consider the target MCG as the MCG and the source MCG as the SCG.

\- Replace *p-MeNB* and *p-SeNB* by *p-DAPS-Target* and *p-DAPS-Source*,
respectively.

\- Replace \"(a)synchronous dual connectivity\" by \"(a)synchronous
DAPS\".

\- \"Dual connectivity power control mode\" is replaced by \"DAPS power
control mode\", and is given by higher layer parameter
*uplinkPowerSharingDAPS-Mode.*

*- The UE assumes only Pcell exists in each MCG.*

If UE does not indicate a capability for power sharing between source
and target MCGs in DAPS handover, or if a UE is configured with a target
MCG and a source MCG in the same band, the UE does not expect the
transmissions on the target and source cell to overlap in time domain.

### 5.1.5 Power allocation for PUCCH-SCell

If a UE is configured with a PUCCH-SCell, power allocation for serving
cells in the primary PUCCH group and secondary PUCCH group is performed
according to Clause 5.1.4.1, with the following exceptions:

\- the term \'MCG\' is replaced by \'primary PUCCH group\';

\- the term \'SCG\' is replaced by \'secondary PUCCH group\';

\- *and* *is the linear value of the UE total configured maximum output
power defined in \[6\] in subframe/slot/subslot i*; and

\- .

For a UE capable of simultaneous transmission of different uplink signal
durations to different serving cells as indicated by UE capability
*simultaneousTx-differentTx-duration*, if the UE is configured with a
PUCCH-SCell and configured with different values of higher layer
parameter *ul-STTI-Length* for serving cells in the primary PUCCH group
and secondary PUCCH group, and if the total transmit power of the UE
would exceed *, the UE drops the following channels from the highest
serving cell index to the lowest serving cell index in order until* the
total transmit power of the UE would not exceed *which in that case, the
UE would not drop any more channels or until there are only* PUSCH/PUCCH
transmissions of the same duration remaining in which case the
corresponding power scaling rules described in Clause 5.1.1 apply*:*

\- subframe-PUSCH without HARQ-ACK of the secondary PUCCH group

\- subframe-PUSCH without HARQ-ACK of the primary PUCCH group

\- slot-PUSCH without HARQ-ACK of the secondary PUCCH group

\- slot- PUSCH without HARQ-ACK of the primary PUCCH group

\- subslot-PUSCH without HARQ-ACK and without DMRS of the secondary
PUCCH group

\- subslot-PUSCH without HARQ-ACK and without DMRS of the primary PUCCH
group

\- subslot-PUSCH without HARQ-ACK and with DMRS of the secondary PUCCH
group

\- subslot-PUSCH without HARQ-ACK and with DMRS of the primary PUCCH
group

\- subframe-PUSCH with HARQ-ACK or subframe-PUCCH of the secondary PUCCH
group

\- subframe-PUSCH with HARQ-ACK or subframe-PUCCH of the primary PUCCH
group

\- slot-PUSCH with HARQ-ACK or slot-PUCCH of the secondary PUCCH group

\- slot-PUSCH with HARQ-ACK or slot-PUCCH of the primary PUCCH group

\- subslot-PUSCH with HARQ-ACK or subslot-PUCCH of the secondary PUCCH
group

\- subslot-PUSCH with HARQ-ACK or subslot-PUCCH of the primary PUCCH
group

The HARQ-ACK of a dropped channel is transmitted on the channel of the
same PUCCH group to be transmitted with highest priority.

If the UE is not configured with a PUCCH-SCell but configured with
higher layer parameter *ul-STTI-Length*, and if the total transmit power
of the UE would exceed , the UE above dropping rules would apply by
removing the channels corresponding to the secondary PUCCH group.

5.2 Downlink power allocation
-----------------------------

The eNodeB determines the downlink transmit energy per resource element.

For the purpose of RSRP and RSRQ measurements, the UE may assume
downlink cell-specific RS EPRE is constant across the downlink system
bandwidth and constant across all subframes with discovery signal
transmissions until different cell-specific RS power information is
received.

For a cell that is not a LAA SCell, the UE may assume downlink
cell-specific RS EPRE is constant across the downlink system bandwidth
and constant across all subframes until different cell-specific RS power
information is received.

The downlink cell-specific reference-signal EPRE can be derived from the
downlink reference-signal transmit power given by the parameter
*referenceSignalPower* provided by higher layers. The downlink
reference-signal transmit power is defined as the linear average over
the power contributions (in \[W\]) of all resource elements that carry
cell-specific reference signals within the operating system bandwidth.

For a LAA SCell, the UE may assume that the EPRE of downlink
cell-specific RS in subframe n is same as the EPRE of downlink
cell-specific RS in subframe n-1, if all OFDM symbols of at least the
second slot of subframe n-1, are occupied.

For a BL/CE UE, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*RSS-Config*, the ratio of resynchronization signal EPRE to
cell-specific RS EPRE is given by higher layer parameter *powerBoost* in
*RSS-Config*
$+ 10\log_{10}\left( p \times min(\rho_{A}^{d},\rho_{B}^{d}) \right)$*,*
where $\rho_{A}^{d}$ and $\rho_{B}^{d}$ *are* the default values for
$\rho_{A}$ and $\rho_{B}$ in Table 5.2-1a assuming the same transmitted
power for symbols with or without CRS, and $p$ *is* the number of CRS
ports.

For a BL/CE UE, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*WUS-Config*, the ratio of MWUS EPRE to cell-specific RS EPRE is given
by higher layer parameter *powerBoost* in
*WUS-Config*$+ 10\log_{10}\left( p \times min(\rho_{A}^{d},\rho_{B}^{d}) \right)$*,*
where $\rho_{A}^{d}$ and $\rho_{B}^{d}$ *are* the default values for
$\rho_{A}$ and $\rho_{B}$ in Table 5.2-1a assuming the same transmitted
power for symbols with or without CRS, and $p$ *is* the number of CRS
ports.

For a BL/CE UE, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*crs-ChEstMPDCCH-ConfigCommon* or *crs-ChEstMPDCCH-ConfigDedicated*, the
ratio of Demodulation RS EPRE to cell-specific RS EPRE is given by
higher layer parameter *powerRatio* in *crs-ChEstMPDCCH-ConfigCommon* or
*crs-ChEstMPDCCH-ConfigDedicated*.

The ratio of PDSCH EPRE to cell-specific RS EPRE among PDSCH REs (not
applicable to PDSCH REs with zero EPRE) for each OFDM symbol is denoted
by either or according to the OFDM symbol index as given by Table 5.2-2
and Table 5.2-3. In addition, and are UE-specific.

For a UE in transmission mode 8 - 10 when UE-specific RSs are not
present in the PRBs upon which the corresponding PDSCH is mapped or in
transmission modes 1 -- 7, the UE may assume that for 16 QAM, 64 QAM,
256QAM, or 1024QAM spatial multiplexing with more than one layer or for
PDSCH transmissions associated with the multi-user MIMO transmission
scheme, or for a UE in transmission modes 2-4 and configured with higher
layer parameter *must-Config-r14* the UE may assume that for QPSK,

\- is equal to \[dB\] when the UE receives a PDSCH data transmission
using precoding for transmit diversity with 4 cell-specific antenna
ports according to Clause 6.3.4.3 of \[3\];

\- is equal to \[dB\] otherwise

whereis 0 dB for all PDSCH transmission schemes except multi-user MIMO
as described in Clause 7.1.5 and where is a UE specific parameter
provided by higher layers. If the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *must-Config-r14*, and if the UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *p-a-must-r14*, and if the PDCCH/EPDCCH DCI of the
corresponding PDSCH transmission indicates MUST interference is present
\[4\], the UE shall use the higher layer parameter *p-a-must-r14* for
determining.

For a UE configured with higher layers parameter *servCellp-a-r12*, and
the UE in transmission modes 8-10 when UE-specific RSs are not present
in the PRBs upon which the corresponding PDSCH is mapped or in
transmission modes 1-7, the UE may assume that for QPSK and transmission
with single-antenna port or transmit diversity transmission schemes or
spatial multiplexing using a single transmission layer, and the PDSCH
transmission is not associated with the multi-user MIMO transmission
scheme, and the PDSCH is scheduled by a PDCCH/EPDCCH with CRC scrambled
by C-RNTI,

\- ![](media/image553.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} is equal to
![](media/image554.wmf){width="1.125in" height="0.25in"} \[dB\] when the
UE receives a PDSCH data transmission using precoding for transmit
diversity with 4 cell-specific antenna ports according to Clause 6.3.4.3
of \[3\];

\- ![](media/image553.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} is equal
to![](media/image555.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} \[dB\] otherwise

and where![](media/image556.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} is given by the parameter
*servCellp-a-r12*. If the UE is also configured with higher layer
parameter *must-Config-r14*, and if the UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *p-a-must-r14*, and if the PDCCH/EPDCCH DCI of the
corresponding PDSCH transmission indicates MUST interference is present
\[4\], the UE shall use the higher layer parameter *p-a-must-r14* for
determining ![](media/image556.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}.

For a cell supporting SC-PTM, the UE may assume that for the PDSCH
scrambled by G-RNTI,

\- ![](media/image553.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} is equal to \[dB\] when the UE receives
a PDSCH data transmission using precoding for transmit diversity with 4
cell-specific antenna ports according to Clause 6.3.4.3 of \[3\];

\- ![](media/image553.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} is equal to \[dB\] otherwise

where is configured per SC-MTCH and is given by higher layer parameter
*p-a-r13*. If is not configured, the UE may assume that \[dB\].

For transmission mode 7, if UE-specific RSs are present in the PRBs upon
which the corresponding PDSCH is mapped, the ratio of PDSCH EPRE to
UE-specific RS EPRE within each OFDM symbol containing UE-specific RSs
shall be a constant, and that constant shall be maintained over all the
OFDM symbols containing the UE-specific RSs in the corresponding PRBs.
In addition, the UE may assume that for 16QAM, 64QAM, 256QAM, or 1024QAM
this ratio is 0 dB.

For transmission mode 8, if UE-specific RSs are present in the PRBs upon
which the corresponding PDSCH is mapped, the UE may assume the ratio of
PDSCH EPRE to UE-specific RS EPRE within each OFDM symbol containing
UE-specific RSs is 0 dB.

For transmission mode 9 or 10, if UE-specific RSs are present in the
PRBs upon which the corresponding PDSCH is mapped, the UE may assume the
ratio of PDSCH EPRE to UE-specific RS EPRE within each OFDM symbol
containing UE-specific RS is 0 dB for number of transmission layers less
than or equal to two and -3 dB otherwise.

A UE may assume that downlink positioning reference signal EPRE is
constant across the positioning reference signal bandwidth and across
all OFDM symbols that contain positioning reference signals in a given
positioning reference signal occasion \[10\].

For the purpose of RSRP and RSRQ measurements on CSI-RS of a discovery
signal the UE may assume that the EPRE of CSI-RS is constant across the
downlink system bandwidth and constant across all subframes with
discovery signal transmissions for each CSI-RS resource.

If a serving cell is not configured for a UE as a LAA SCell, and *if
CSI-RS is configured in the serving cell then the UE shall assume
downlink CSI-RS EPRE is constant across the downlink system bandwidth
and constant across all subframes for each CSI-RS resource*.

If a serving cell is configured for a UE as a LAA SCell, the UE may
assume that EPRE of CSI-RS in subframe n2 is same as EPRE of CSI-RS in
earlier subframe n1, if all OFDM symbols of subframe n1 and all
subframes between subframe n1 and subframe n2, are occupied.

The cell-specific ratio is given by Table 5.2-1 according to
cell-specific parameter signalled by higher layers and the number of
configured eNodeB cell specific antenna ports. is given by higher layer
parameter *p-b-r13* for PDSCH scrambled by G-RNTI and by higher layer
parameter *p-b* otherwise. In case PDSCH is scrambled by G-RNTI, if is
not configured, the UE may assume that .

Table 5.2-1: The cell-specific ratio for 1, 2, or 4 cell specific
antenna ports

  --- ------------------ ----------------------------
      One Antenna Port   Two and Four Antenna Ports
  0   1                  5/4
  1   4/5                1
  2   3/5                3/4
  3   2/5                1/2
  --- ------------------ ----------------------------

Table 5.2-1a: $\mathbf{\rho}_{\mathbf{A}}^{\mathbf{d}}$ and
$\mathbf{\rho}_{\mathbf{B}}^{\mathbf{d}}$ for 1, 2, or 4 cell specific
antenna ports \
assuming the same transmitted power for symbols with or without CRS

  $$\mathbf{P}_{\mathbf{B}}$$   One Antenna Port                              Two and Four Antenna Ports                                                                  
  ----------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
                                $$\mathbf{\rho}_{\mathbf{A}}^{\mathbf{d}}$$   $$\mathbf{\rho}_{\mathbf{B}}^{\mathbf{d}}$$   $$\mathbf{\rho}_{\mathbf{A}}^{\mathbf{d}}$$   $$\mathbf{\rho}_{\mathbf{B}}^{\mathbf{d}}$$
  0                             1                                             1                                             **1**                                         **5/4**
  1                             1/2                                           2/5                                           1/2                                           1/2
  2                             1/3                                           1/5                                           1/3                                           1/4
  3                             1/4                                           1/10                                          1/4                                           1/8

For PMCH with 16QAM, 64QAM, or 256QAM, the UE may assume that the ratio
of PMCH EPRE to MBSFN RS EPRE is equal to 0 dB.

Table 5.2-2: OFDM symbol indices within a slot of a non-MBSFN subframe
where the ratio of the corresponding PDSCH EPRE to the cell-specific RS
EPRE is denoted by or

  Number of antenna ports   OFDM symbol indices within a slot where the ratio of the corresponding PDSCH EPRE to the cell-specific RS EPRE is denoted by   OFDM symbol indices within a slot where the ratio of the corresponding PDSCH EPRE to the cell-specific RS EPRE is denoted by                          
  ------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ------------------------
                            Normal cyclic prefix                                                                                                           Extended cyclic prefix                                                                                                         Normal cyclic prefix   Extended cyclic prefix
  One or two                1, 2, 3, 5, 6                                                                                                                  1, 2, 4, 5                                                                                                                     0, 4                   0, 3
  Four                      2, 3, 5, 6                                                                                                                     2, 4, 5                                                                                                                        0, 1, 4                0, 1, 3

Table 5.2-3: OFDM symbol indices within a slot of an MBSFN subframe
where the ratio of the corresponding PDSCH EPRE to the cell-specific RS
EPRE is denoted by or

  Number of antenna ports   OFDM symbol indices within a slot where the ratio of the corresponding PDSCH EPRE to the cell-specific RS EPRE is denoted by   OFDM symbol indices within a slot where the ratio of the corresponding PDSCH EPRE to the cell-specific RS EPRE is denoted by                                                                                       
  ------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ------------------------ ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
                            Normal cyclic prefix                                                                                                           Extended cyclic prefix                                                                                                         Normal cyclic prefix   Extended cyclic prefix                                       
                            mod 2 = 0                                                                                                                      mod 2 = 1                                                                                                                      mod 2 = 0              mod 2 = 1                mod 2 = 0   mod 2 = 1   mod 2 = 0   mod 2 = 1
  One or two                1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6                                                                                                               0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6                                                                                                            1, 2, 3, 4, 5          0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5         0           \-          0           \-
  Four                      2, 3, 4, 5, 6                                                                                                                  0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6                                                                                                            2, 4, 3, 5             0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5         0, 1        \-          0, 1        \-

### 5.2.1 eNodeB Relative Narrowband TX Power (RNTP) restrictions

The determination of reported Relative Narrowband TX Power indication is
defined as follows:

where is the maximum intended EPRE of UE-specific PDSCH REs in OFDM
symbols not containing RS in this physical resource block on antenna
port *p* in the considered future time interval*;* is the physical
resource block number ; takes on one of the following values\[dB\] and

where is the base station maximum output power described in \[7\], and ,
and are defined in \[3\].
