3GPP TS 36.213 V16.9.0 (2022-09)

Technical Specification

3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);

Physical layer procedures

(Release 16)

![5G-logo\_175px](media/image1.jpeg){width="1.4375in"
height="0.9895833333333334in"}
![3GPP-logo\_web](media/image2.png){width="1.78125in"
height="1.0416666666666667in"}

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organisational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organisational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organisational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> E-UTRA, radio, layer 1
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles -- Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne -- France
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 81 Scope 92 References 93 Symbols and abbreviations 103.1
Symbols 103.2 Abbreviations 104 Synchronization procedures 124.1 Cell
search 124.2 Timing synchronization 124.2.1 Radio link monitoring
124.2.2 Inter-cell synchronization 124.2.3 Transmission timing
adjustments 124.3 Timing for Secondary Cell Activation / Deactivation
145 Power control 155.1 Uplink power control 155.1.1 Physical uplink
shared channel 165.1.1.1 UE behaviour 165.1.1.2 Power headroom 315.1.2
Physical uplink control channel 345.1.2.1 UE behaviour 345.1.3 Sounding
Reference Symbol (SRS) 405.1.3.1 UE behaviour 405.1.3.2 Power headroom
for Type3 report 435.1.4 Power allocation for EUTRA dual connectivity
435.1.4.1 Dual connectivity power control Mode 1 445.1.4.2 Dual
connectivity power control Mode 2 515.1.4a Power allocation for dual
active protocol stack 555.1.5 Power allocation for PUCCH-SCell 565.2
Downlink power allocation 575.2.1 eNodeB Relative Narrowband TX Power
(RNTP) restrictions 596 Random access procedure 616.1 Physical
non-synchronized random access procedure 616.1.1 Timing 626.2 Random
Access Response Grant 637 Physical downlink shared channel related
procedures 687.1 UE procedure for receiving the physical downlink shared
channel 697.1.1 Single-antenna port scheme 887.1.2 Transmit diversity
scheme 887.1.3 Large delay CDD scheme 897.1.4 Closed-loop spatial
multiplexing scheme 897.1.5 Multi-user MIMO scheme 897.1.5A Dual layer
scheme 897.1.5B Up to 8 layer transmission scheme 897.1.6 Resource
allocation 897.1.6.1 Resource allocation type 0 917.1.6.2 Resource
allocation type 1 927.1.6.3 Resource allocation type 2 937.1.6.4 PDSCH
starting position 967.1.6.4A PDSCH starting position for BL/CE UEs
987.1.6.5 Physical Resource Block (PRB) bundling 987.1.7 Modulation
order and transport block size determination 1007.1.7.1 Modulation order
and redundancy version determination 1037.1.7.2 Transport block size
determination 1097.1.7.2.1 Transport blocks not mapped to two or more
layer spatial multiplexing 1147.1.7.2.2 Transport blocks mapped to
two-layer spatial multiplexing 1237.1.7.2.3 Transport blocks mapped for
DCI Format 1C and DCI Format 6-2 1237.1.7.2.4 Transport blocks mapped to
three-layer spatial multiplexing 1247.1.7.2.5 Transport blocks mapped to
four-layer spatial multiplexing 1247.1.7.2.6 Transport blocks mapped for
BL/CE UEs configured with CEModeB and PDSCH bandwidth up to 1.4MHz
1257.1.7.2.7 Transport blocks mapped for BL/CE UEs
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* 1267.1.7.2.8 Transport blocks mapped
for UEs configured with *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* value of 5 MHz or
with *pdsch-MaxBandwidth-SC-MTCH* value of 24 PRBs 1267.1.7.3 Redundancy
Version determination for Format 1C 1267.1.8 Storing soft channel bits
1277.1.9 PDSCH resource mapping parameters 1277.1.10 Antenna ports quasi
co-location for PDSCH 1297.1.11 PDSCH subframe assignment for BL/CE UE
1307.2 UE procedure for reporting Channel State Information (CSI)
1327.2.1 Aperiodic CSI Reporting using PUSCH 1427.2.2 Periodic CSI
Reporting using PUCCH 1687.2.3 Channel Quality Indicator (CQI)
definition 2097.2.4 Precoding Matrix Indicator (PMI) definition 2237.2.5
Channel-State Information -- Reference Signal (CSI-RS) definition
2517.2.6 Channel-State Information -- Interference Measurement (CSI-IM)
Resource definition 2537.2.7 Zero Power CSI-RS Resource definition
2537.2.8 CSI-RS Activation / Deactivation 2537.3 UE procedure for
reporting HARQ-ACK 2547.3.1 FDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure 2587.3.2
TDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure 2637.3.2.1 TDD HARQ-ACK reporting
procedure for same UL/DL configuration 2637.3.2.2 TDD HARQ-ACK reporting
procedure for different UL/DL configurations 2797.3.3 FDD-TDD HARQ-ACK
reporting procedure for primary cell frame structure type 1 2867.3.4
FDD-TDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure for primary cell frame structure
type 2 2888 Physical uplink shared channel related procedures 2908.0 UE
procedure for transmitting the physical uplink shared channel 2918.0.1
Single-antenna port scheme 3188.0.2 Closed-loop spatial multiplexing
scheme 3188.1 Resource allocation for PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with uplink
DCI format 3198.1.1 Uplink resource allocation type 0 3198.1.2 Uplink
resource allocation type 1 3208.1.3 Uplink resource allocation type 2
3208.1.4 Uplink resource allocation type 3 3218.1.5 Uplink resource
allocation type 4 3228.1.5.1 UL Resource Block Groups 3228.1.6 Uplink
resource allocation type 5 3238.2 UE sounding procedure 3258.3 UE
HARQ-ACK procedure 3378.3A Autonomous uplink feedback procedure 3398.4
UE PUSCH hopping procedure 3398.4.1 Type 1 PUSCH hopping 3408.4.2 Type 2
PUSCH hopping 3408.5 UE Reference Symbol (RS) procedure 3418.6
Modulation order, redundancy version and transport block size
determination 3428.6.1 Modulation order and redundancy version
determination 3428.6.2 Transport block size determination 3508.6.3
Control information MCS offset determination 3578.7 UE transmit antenna
selection 3618.8 Transmission timing adjustments 3619 Physical downlink
control channel procedures 3619.1 UE procedure for determining physical
downlink control channel assignment 3629.1.1 PDCCH assignment procedure
3629.1.2 PHICH assignment procedure 3669.1.3 Control Format Indicator
(CFI) assignment procedure 3699.1.4 EPDCCH assignment procedure
3709.1.4.1 EPDCCH starting position 3779.1.4.2 Antenna ports quasi
co-location for EPDCCH 3779.1.4.3 Resource mapping parameters for EPDCCH
3789.1.4.4 PRB-pair indication for EPDCCH 3789.1.5 MPDCCH assignment
procedure 3799.1.5.1 MPDCCH starting position 3879.1.5.2 Antenna ports
quasi co-location for MPDCCH 3879.1.5.3 Preconfigured Uplink Resource
ACK/fallback procedure 3879.1.6 SPDCCH assignment procedure 3879.1.6.1
Resource mapping parameters for SPDCCH 3899.1.6.2 PRB-pair indication
for SPDCCH 3899.1.6.3 Physical Resource Block (PRB) bundling for
DMRS-based SPDCCH 3909.1.6.4 Antenna ports quasi co-location for
DMRS-based SPDCCH 3909.2 PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH validation for
semi-persistent scheduling 3919.2A PDCCH/EPDCCH validation for
autonomous uplink transmissions 3939.3 PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH
control information procedure 39410 Physical uplink control channel
procedures 39510.1 UE procedure for determining physical uplink control
channel assignment 39610.1.1 PUCCH format information 40110.1.2 FDD
HARQ-ACK feedback procedures 40810.1.2.1 FDD HARQ-ACK procedure for one
configured serving cell 40810.1.2.2 FDD HARQ-ACK procedures for more
than one configured serving cell 41110.1.2.2.1 PUCCH format 1b with
channel selection HARQ-ACK procedure 41210.1.2.2.2 PUCCH format 3
HARQ-ACK procedure 41510.1.2.2.3 PUCCH format 4 HARQ-ACK procedure
41710.1.2.2.4 PUCCH format 5 HARQ-ACK procedure 42010.1.3 TDD HARQ-ACK
feedback procedures 42110.1.3.1 TDD HARQ-ACK procedure for one
configured serving cell 42310.1.3.2 TDD HARQ-ACK procedure for more than
one configured serving cell 43710.1.3.2.1 PUCCH format 1b with channel
selection HARQ-ACK procedure 43710.1.3.2.2 PUCCH format 3 HARQ-ACK
procedure 45310.1.3.2.3 PUCCH format 4 HARQ-ACK procedure 46110.1.3.2.4
PUCCH format 5 HARQ-ACK procedure 47710.1.3A FDD-TDD HARQ-ACK feedback
procedures for primary cell frame structure type 2 47710.1.4 HARQ-ACK
Repetition procedure 47910.1.5 Scheduling Request (SR) procedure 48010.2
Uplink HARQ-ACK timing 48211 Physical Multicast Channel (PMCH) related
procedures 48811.1 UE procedure for receiving the PMCH 48811.2 UE
procedure for receiving MCCH and system information change notification
49112 Assumptions independent of physical channel 49113 Uplink/Downlink
configuration determination procedure for Frame Structure Type 2 49213.1
UE procedure for determining eIMTA-uplink/downlink configuration 49313A
Subframe configuration for Frame Structure Type 3 494**14 UE procedures
related to Sidelink** 49714.1 Physical Sidelink Shared Channel related
procedures 49814.1.1 UE procedure for transmitting the PSSCH 49814.1.1.1
UE procedure for determining subframes for transmitting PSSCH for
sidelink transmission mode 1 50014.1.1.1.1 Determination of subframe
indicator bitmap 50014.1.1.2 UE procedure for determining resource
blocks for transmitting PSSCH for sidelink transmission mode 1
50314.1.1.2.1 PSSCH resource allocation for sidelink transmission mode 1
50314.1.1.2.2 PSSCH frequency hopping for sidelink transmission mode 1
50414.1.1.3 UE procedure for determining subframes for transmitting
PSSCH for sidelink transmission mode 2 50414.1.1.4 UE procedure for
determining resource blocks for transmitting PSSCH for sidelink
transmission mode 2 50514.1.1.4A UE procedure for determining subframes
and resource blocks for transmitting PSSCH for sidelink transmission
mode 3 50514.1.1.4B UE procedure for determining subframes and resource
blocks for transmitting PSSCH and reserving resources for sidelink
transmission mode 4 50614.1.1.4C UE procedure for determining subframes
and resource blocks for PSSCH transmission associated with an SCI format
1 50614.1.1.5 UE procedure for PSSCH power control 50714.1.1.6 UE
procedure for determining the subset of resources to be reported to
higher layers in PSSCH resource selection in sidelink transmission mode
4 and in sensing measurement in sidelink transmission mode 3 50914.1.1.7
Conditions for selecting resources when the number of HARQ transmissions
is two in sidelink transmission mode 4 51214.1.2 UE procedure for
receiving the PSSCH 51214.1.3 UE procedure for determining resource
block pool and subframe pool for sidelink transmission mode 2 51314.1.5
UE procedure for determining resource block pool and subframe pool for
sidelink transmission mode 3 and 4 51414.2 Physical Sidelink Control
Channel related procedures 51514.2.1 UE procedure for transmitting the
PSCCH 51514.2.1.1 UE procedure for determining subframes and resource
blocks for transmitting PSCCH for sidelink transmission mode 1
51814.2.1.2 UE procedure for determining subframes and resource blocks
for transmitting PSCCH for sidelink transmission mode 2 51814.2.1.3 UE
procedure for PSCCH power control 51814.2.2 UE procedure for receiving
the PSCCH 52014.2.3 UE procedure for determining resource block pool and
subframe pool for PSCCH 52014.2.4 UE procedure for determining resource
block pool for PSCCH in sidelink transmission mode 3 and 4 52115 Void
52416 UE Procedures related to narrowband IoT 52516.1 Synchronization
procedures 52516.1.1 Cell search 52516.1.2 Timing synchronization
52516.2 Power control 52516.2.1 Uplink power control 52516.2.1.1
Narrowband physical uplink shared channel 52516.2.1.1.1 UE behaviour
52516.2.1.1.2 Power headroom 52616.2.1.2 SR 52716.2.1.2.1 UE behaviour
52716.2.2 Downlink power allocation 52716.3 Random access procedure
52816.3.1 Physical non-synchronized random access procedure 52816.3.2
Timing 52816.3.3 Narrowband random access response grant 52916.4
Narrowband physical downlink shared channel related procedures 53116.4.1
UE procedure for receiving the narrowband physical downlink shared
channel 53116.4.1.1 Single-antenna port scheme 53516.4.1.2 Transmit
diversity scheme 53516.4.1.3 Resource allocation 53516.4.1.4 NPDSCH
starting position 53816.4.1.5 Modulation order and transport block size
determination 53916.4.1.5.1 Transport blocks not mapped for
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* 53916.4.1.5.2 Transport blocks mapped
for *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* 54016.4.2 UE procedure for
reporting ACK/NACK 54016.5 Narrowband physical uplink shared channel
related procedures 54216.5.1 UE procedure for transmitting format 1
narrowband physical uplink shared channel 54216.5.1.1 Resource
allocation 54516.5.1.2 Modulation order, redundancy version and
transport block size determination 54616.5.2 UE procedure for NPUSCH
retransmission 54816.5.3 UE procedure for transmitting SR 54816.6
Narrowband physical downlink control channel related procedures
54816.6.1 NPDCCH starting position 55416.6.2 NPDCCH control information
procedure 55416.6.3 NPDCCH validation for semi-persistent scheduling
55516.6.4 Preconfigured uplink resource ACK/fallback procedure 55516.7
Assumptions independent of physical channel related to narrowband IoT
55516.8 UE procedure for acquiring cell-specific reference signal
sequence and raster offset 55516.9 UE procedure for receiving narrowband
wake up signal 556**17** Wake-up signal related procedures for BL/CE UE
557Annex A (informative): Change history 558
