6 Random access procedure
=========================

If the UE is configured with a SCG, the UE shall apply the procedures
described in this clause for both MCG and SCG

\- When the procedures are applied for MCG, the terms \'secondary
cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\', \'serving cells\' in this
clause refer to secondary cell, secondary cells, serving cell, serving
cells belonging to the MCG respectively.

\- When the procedures are applied for SCG, the terms \'secondary
cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\', \'serving cells\' in this
clause refer to secondary cell, secondary cells (not including PSCell),
serving cell, serving cells belonging to the SCG respectively. The term
\'primary cell\' in this clause refers to the PSCell of the SCG

**For a UE configured with EN-DC/NE-DC and serving cell frame structure
type 1,** if the UE is configured with
*tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the serving cell, the UE
is not expected to transmit any uplink physical channel or signal in the
serving cell on subframes other than offset-UL subframes, where the
offset-UL subframes are determined by applying an offset value given by
***harq-Offset-r15*** to the subframes denoted as uplink in the UL/DL
configuration *tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC*.

Prior to initiation of the non-synchronized physical random access
procedure, Layer 1 shall receive the following information from the
higher layers:

\- Random access channel parameters (PRACH configuration and frequency
position)

\- Parameters for determining the root sequences and their cyclic shifts
in the preamble sequence set for the primary cell (index to logical root
sequence table, cyclic shift (![](media/image1.wmf)), and set type
(unrestricted or restricted set))

6.1 Physical non-synchronized random access procedure
-----------------------------------------------------

From the physical layer perspective, the L1 random access procedure
encompasses the transmission of random access preamble and random access
response. The remaining messages are scheduled for transmission by the
higher layer on the shared data channel and are not considered part of
the L1 random access procedure. A random access channel occupies 6
resource blocks in a subframe or set of consecutive subframes reserved
for random access preamble transmissions. The eNodeB is not prohibited
from scheduling data in the resource blocks reserved for random access
channel preamble transmission.

A UE is not expected to be configured with PRACH on a LAA SCell.

The following steps are required for the L1 random access procedure:

\- Layer 1 procedure is triggered upon request of a preamble
transmission by higher layers.

\- A preamble index, a target preamble received power
(PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER), a corresponding RA-RNTI and a PRACH
resource are indicated by higher layers as part of the request.

\- For a BL/CE UE, a number of PRACH repetitions for preamble
transmission attempt is also indicated by higher layers as part of the
request. For a non-BL/CE UE or for a BL/CE UE with the PRACH coverage
enhancement level 0/1/2, a preamble transmission power P~PRACH~ is
determined as\
P~PRACH~ = min{![](media/image2.wmf), PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER
+ ![](media/image3.wmf) }\_\[dBm\], where ![](media/image2.wmf) is the
configured UE transmit power defined in \[6\] for subframe *i* of
serving cell ![](media/image4.wmf) and ![](media/image5.wmf) is the
downlink path loss estimate calculated in the UE for serving cell
![](media/image4.wmf). For a BL/CE UE, P~PRACH~ is set to
![](media/image2.wmf) for the highest PRACH coverage enhancement level
3.

\- A preamble sequence is selected from the preamble sequence set using
the preamble index.

\- A single preamble is transmitted using the selected preamble sequence
with transmission power P~PRACH~ on the indicated PRACH resource. For a
BL/CE UE, the single preamble is transmitted for the number of PRACH
repetitions for the associated PRACH coverage enhancement level as
indicated by higher layers.

\- For non-BL/CE UEs, detection of a PDCCH with the indicated RA-RNTI is
attempted during a window controlled by higher layers (see \[8\], Clause
5.1.4). If detected, the corresponding DL-SCH transport block is passed
to higher layers. The higher layers parse the transport block and
indicate the 20-bit uplink grant to the physical layer, which is
processed according to Clause 6.2.

\- For BL/CE UEs, detection of a MPDCCH with DCI scrambled by RA-RNTI is
attempted during a window controlled by higher layers (see \[8\], Clause
5.1.4). If detected, the corresponding DL-SCH transport block is passed
to higher layers. The higher layers parse the transport block and
indicate the Nr-bit uplink grant to the physical layer, which is
processed according to Clause 6.2.

### 6.1.1 Timing

For the L1 random access procedure, a non-BL/CE UE\'s uplink
transmission timing after a random access preamble transmission is as
follows.

a\) If a PDCCH with associated RA-RNTI is detected in subframe *n*, and
the corresponding DL-SCH transport block contains a response to the
transmitted preamble sequence, the UE shall, according to the
information in the response, transmit an UL-SCH transport block in the
first subframe ![](media/image6.wmf). If the UE supports reduced control
plane latency and *reducedControlPlaneLatency* is enabled, , otherwise,
. If the UL delay field in Clause 6.2 is set to zero,
![](media/image6.wmf) is the first available UL subframe for PUSCH
transmission, where for TDD serving cell, the first UL subframe for
PUSCH transmission is determined based on the UL/DL configuration (i.e.,
the parameter *subframeAssignment*) indicated by higher layers. The UE
shall postpone the PUSCH transmission to the next available UL subframe
after ![](media/image6.wmf) if the field is set to 1.

b\) If a random access response is received in subframe *n*, and the
corresponding DL-SCH transport block does not contain a response to the
transmitted preamble sequence, the UE shall, if requested by higher
layers, be ready to transmit a new preamble sequence no later than in
subframe ![](media/image9.wmf).

c\) If no random access response is received in subframe *n*, *where
subframe n* is the last subframe of the random access response window,
the UE shall, if requested by higher layers, be ready to transmit a new
preamble sequence no later than in subframe ![](media/image10.wmf),
except if the transmitted preamble sequence is on a TDD serving cell not
configured for PUSCH/PUCCH transmission.

For the L1 random access procedure, a BL/CE UE\'s uplink transmission
after a random access preamble transmission is as follows.

a\) If a MPDCCH with associated RA-RNTI is detected and the
corresponding DL-SCH transport block reception ending in subframe *n*
contains a response to the transmitted preamble sequence, the UE shall,
according to the information in the response, transmit an UL-SCH
transport block in the first subframe ![](media/image6.wmf),
![](media/image11.wmf), if the UL delay field in Clause 6.2 is set to
zero where the subframe ![](media/image6.wmf) is the first available UL
subframe for PUSCH transmission, where for TDD serving cell, the first
UL subframe for PUSCH transmission is determined based on the UL/DL
configuration (i.e., the parameter *subframeAssignment*) indicated by
higher layers.

> When the number of Msg3 PUSCH repetitions, ![](media/image12.wmf), as
> indicated in the random access response, is greater than 1, the
> subframe ![](media/image6.wmf) is the first available UL subframe in
> the set of BL/CE UL subframes. The UE shall postpone the PUSCH
> transmission to the next available UL subframe after
> ![](media/image13.wmf), if the UL delay field is set to 1.
>
> When the number of Msg3 PUSCH repetitions,![](media/image12.wmf), as
> indicated in the random access response, is equal to 1, the subframe
> ![](media/image6.wmf) is the first available UL subframe for PUSCH
> transmission determined by ![](media/image14.wmf)for FDD and the
> parameter *subframeAssignment* for TDD. The UE shall postpone the
> PUSCH transmission to the next available UL subframe after
> ![](media/image13.wmf), if the UL delay field is set to 1.

b\) If a random access response is received and its reception ends in
subframe *n*, and the corresponding DL-SCH transport block does not
contain a response to the transmitted preamble sequence, the UE shall,
if requested by higher layers, be ready to transmit a new preamble
sequence no later than in subframe ![](media/image9.wmf).

c\) If the most recent PRACH coverage enhancement level for the UE is 0
or 1,

\- if no random access response is received in subframe *n*, *where
subframe n* is the last subframe of the random access response window,
the UE shall, if requested by higher layers, be ready to transmit a new
preamble sequence no later than in subframe ![](media/image10.wmf).

If the most recent PRACH coverage enhancement level for the UE is 2 or
3,

\- if no MPDCCH scheduling random access response is received in
subframe *n*, *where subframe n* is the last subframe of the random
access response window, the UE shall, if requested by higher layers, be
ready to transmit a new preamble sequence no later than in subframe
![](media/image10.wmf);

\- if an MPDCCH with associated RA-RNTI is detected and the
corresponding DL-SCH transport block reception ending in subframe *n*
cannot be successfully decoded, the UE shall, if requested by higher
layers, be ready to transmit a new preamble sequence no later than in
subframe ![](media/image10.wmf).

In case a random access procedure is initiated by a \"PDCCH order\" in
subframe *n* for non-BL/CE UEs, or \"PDCCH order\" reception ending in
subframe *n* for BL/CE UEs, the UE shall, if requested by higher layers,
transmit random access preamble in the first subframe
![](media/image15.wmf), ![](media/image16.wmf), where a PRACH resource
is available.

If a UE is configured with multiple TAGs, and if the UE is configured
with the carrier indicator field for a given serving cell, the UE shall
use the carrier indicator field value from the detected \"PDCCH order\"
to determine the serving cell for the corresponding random access
preamble transmission.

6.2 Random Access Response Grant
--------------------------------

The higher layers indicate the Nr-bit UL Grant to the physical layer, as
defined in 3GPP TS 36.321 \[8\].\
This is referred to the Random Access Response Grant in the physical
layer.

If BL/CE UE then

\- If the most recent PRACH coverage enhancement level for the UE is 0
or 1, the contents of the Random Access Response Grant are interpreted
according to CEModeA.

\- If the most recent PRACH coverage enhancement level for the UE is 2
or 3, the contents of the Random Access Response Grant are interpreted
according to CEModeB.

\- The content of these Nr bits starting with the MSB and ending with
the LSB are given in Table 6-2 for CEmodeA and CEmodeB if the higher
layers do not indicate EDT to the physical layer as defined in \[8\],
and in Table 6.2-F if the higher layers indicate EDT.:

\- where ![](media/image17.wmf) = ![](media/image18.wmf) and
![](media/image19.wmf)

Table 6-2: Random Access Response Grant Content field size

  DCI contents                           CEmodeA                      CEmodeB
  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------
  Msg3 PUSCH narrowband index            ![](media/image20.wmf)       2
  Msg3 PUSCH Resource allocation         4                            3
  Number of Repetitions for Msg3 PUSCH   2                            3
  MCS                                    3                            0
  TBS                                    0                            2
  TPC                                    3                            0
  CSI request                            1                            0
  UL delay                               1                            0
  Msg3/4 MPDCCH narrowband index         2                            2
  Zero padding                           4 - ![](media/image20.wmf)   0
  Total Nr-bits                          20                           12

Table 6.2-F: Random Access Response Grant Content field size for EDT

  DCI contents                           CEmodeA   CEmodeB
  -------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  Msg3 PUSCH narrowband index                      3
  Msg3 PUSCH Resource allocation         5         3
  Number of Repetitions for Msg3 PUSCH   2         3
  TPC                                    3         0
  CSI request                            1         0
  UL delay                               1         0
  Msg3/4 MPDCCH narrowband index                   3
  Zero padding                           8 -       0
  Total Nr-bits                          20        12

\- For CEmodeB, the Msg3 PUSCH narrowband index indicates the narrowband
to be used for first subframe of Msg3 PUSCH transmission as given in
Table 6.2-A if the higher layers do not indicate EDT to the physical
layer as defined in \[8\], Table 6.2-G otherwise.

\- ![](media/image22.wmf)given in Table 6.2-A, Table 6.2-B and Table
6.2-G is the narrow band used for first subframe of MPDCCH for Random
Access Response and is determined by higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-NarrowbandsToMonitor-r13* if only one narrowband is configured,
otherwise, it is determined by Table 6-2-E.

> Table 6.2-A: Msg3 PUSCH Narrowband Value for CEmodeB.

  ------------------------------------ ------------------------
  Value of \'Msg3 narrowband index\'   Msg3 PUSCH Narrowband
  \'00\'                               ![](media/image23.wmf)
  \'01\'                               ![](media/image24.wmf)
  \'10\'                               ![](media/image25.wmf)
  \'11\'                               ![](media/image26.wmf)
  ------------------------------------ ------------------------

> Table 6.2-G: Msg3 PUSCH Narrowband Value for CEmodeB and EDT.

  ------------------------------------ -----------------------
  Value of \'Msg3 narrowband index\'   Msg3 PUSCH Narrowband
  \'000\'                              
  \'001\'                              
  \'010\'                              
  \'011\'                              
  \'100\'                              
  \'101\'                              
  \'110\'                              
  \'111\'                              
  ------------------------------------ -----------------------

\- The Msg3/4 MPDCCH narrowband index indicates the narrowband used for
first subframe of MPDCCH configured by Temporary C-RNTI and/or C-RNTI
during random access procedure as given in Table 6.2-B if the higher
layers do not indicate EDT to the physical layer as defined in \[8\],
value of for CEModeA and Table 6.2-H for CEModeB otherwise. The number
of downlink narrowbands is given by ![](media/image31.wmf) =
![](media/image32.wmf).

> Table 6.2-B: Msg3/4 MPDCCH Narrowband Value for CEmodeA and CEmodeB.

  --------------------------------------------- --------------------------
  Value of \'Msg3/4 MPDCCH narrowband index\'   Msg3/4 MPDCCH Narrowband
  \'00\'                                        ![](media/image33.wmf)
  \'01\'                                        ![](media/image34.wmf)
  \'10\'                                        ![](media/image35.wmf)
  \'11\'                                        ![](media/image36.wmf)
  --------------------------------------------- --------------------------

> Table 6.2-H: Msg3/4 MPDCCH Narrowband Value for CEmodeB and EDT.

  --------------------------------------------- --------------------------
  Value of \'Msg3/4 MPDCCH narrowband index\'   Msg3/4 MPDCCH Narrowband
  \'000\'                                       
  \'001\'                                       
  \'010\'                                       
  \'011\'                                       
  \'100\'                                       
  \'101\'                                       
  \'110\'                                       
  \'111\'                                       
  --------------------------------------------- --------------------------

\- The repetition number field in the random access response grant
configured by higher layers indicates the repetition level () for the
initial transmission of Msg3 PUSCH as given in Table 6.2-C for CEmodeA
and Table 6.2-D for CEmodeB, where

\- ![](media/image42.wmf) is determined by higher layer parameter
*pusch-maxNumRepetitionCEmodeA-r13* if it is signaled, otherwise
![](media/image42.wmf) = 8,

\- ![](media/image43.wmf) is determined by higher layer parameter
*pusch-maxNumRepetitionCEmodeB-r13* if it is signaled, otherwise
![](media/image43.wmf) = 512.

> If the higher layers indicate EDT to the physical layer as defined in
> \[8\] and if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
> *edt-SmallTBS-Enabled-r15*, the repetition number for the initial
> transmission of Msg3 PUSCH is the smallest integer multiple of *M*
> that is equal to or larger than where is the TBS of Msg3 PUSCH as
> determined in clause 8.6.2, and is the value of the higher layer
> parameter *edt-TBS-r15*. *M*=4 if \> 4, *M* = 1 otherwise.
>
> Table 6.2-C: Msg3 PUSCH Repetition Level Value for CEmodeA.

  -------------------------------- -----------------------------
  Value of \'Repetition number\'   Msg3 PUSCH Repetition level
  \'00\'                           ![](media/image47.wmf)
  \'01\'                           ![](media/image48.wmf)
  \'10\'                           ![](media/image49.wmf)
  \'11\'                           ![](media/image50.wmf)
  -------------------------------- -----------------------------

> Table 6.2-D: Msg3 PUSCH Repetition Level Value for CEmodeB.

  -------------------------------- -----------------------------
  Value of \'Repetition number\'   Msg3 PUSCH Repetition level
  \'000\'                          ![](media/image51.wmf)
  \'001\'                          ![](media/image52.wmf)
  \'010\'                          ![](media/image53.wmf)
  \'011\'                          ![](media/image54.wmf)
  \'100\'                          ![](media/image55.wmf)
  \'101\'                          ![](media/image56.wmf)
  \'110\'                          ![](media/image57.wmf)
  \'111\'                          ![](media/image58.wmf)
  -------------------------------- -----------------------------

> Table 6.2-E: Narrowband (![](media/image22.wmf)) for MPDCCH RAR.

  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mapped Preamble Index        ![](media/image22.wmf)
  mod( Preamble Index, 2 )=0   First narrowband configured by high layer parameter *mpdcch-NarrowbandsToMonitor-r13*
  mod( Preamble Index, 2 )=1   Second narrowband configured by high layer parameter *mpdcch-NarrowbandsToMonitor-r13*
  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\- The resource allocation field is interpreted as follows:

\- For CEmodeA,

\- if the higher layers indicate EDT to the physical layer as defined in
\[8\], then

\- interpret the resource allocation using UL resource allocation type 0
within the indicated narrowband

\- else,

\- insert one most significant bit with value set to \'0\', and
interpret the expanded resource allocation using UL resource allocation
type 0 within the indicated narrowband.

\- For CEmodeB, interpret the resource allocation using UL resource
allocation type 2 within the indicated narrowband.

\- The truncated modulation and coding scheme field is interpreted such
that the modulation and coding scheme corresponding to the Random Access
Response grant is determined from MCS indices 0 through 7 for CEmodeA in
Table 8.6.1-1

The truncated TBS field is interpreted such that the TBS value
corresponding to the Random Access Response grant is determined from TBS
indices 0 through 3 for CEmodeB in Table 7.1.7.2.1-1

else,

\- Nr=20, and the content of these 20 bits starting with the MSB and
ending with the LSB are as follows:

\- Hopping flag -- 1 bit

\- Fixed size resource block assignment -- 10 bits

\- Truncated modulation and coding scheme -- 4 bits

If a UE is performing non-contention based random access procedure and
is configured with higher layer parameter *pusch-EnhancementsConfig*,
then

\- Repetition number of Msg3 -- 3 bits

else

\- TPC command for scheduled PUSCH -- 3 bits

\- UL delay -- 1 bit

\- CSI request -- 1 bit

\- The UE shall use the single-antenna port uplink transmission scheme
for the PUSCH transmission corresponding to the Random Access Response
Grant and the PUSCH retransmission for the same transport block.

\- The UE shall perform PUSCH frequency hopping if the single
bit frequency hopping (FH) field in a corresponding Random Access
Response Grant is set as 1 and the uplink resource block assignment is
type 0, otherwise no PUSCH frequency hopping is performed. When the
hopping flag is set, the UE shall perform PUSCH hopping as indicated via
the fixed size resource block assignment detailed below.

\- The fixed size resource block assignment field is interpreted as
follows:

\- if ![](media/image59.wmf)

\- Truncate the fixed size resource block assignment to its *b* least
significant bits, where ![](media/image60.wmf), and interpret the
truncated resource block assignment according to the rules for a regular
DCI format 0

\- else

\- Insert *b* most significant bits with value set to \'0\' after the
*N~UL\_hop~* hopping bits in the fixed size resource block assignment,
where the number of hopping bits *N~UL\_hop~* is zero when the hopping
flag bit is not set to 1, and is defined in Table 8.4-1 when the hopping
flag bit is set to 1, and ![](media/image61.wmf), and interpret the
expanded resource block assignment according to the rules for a regular
DCI format 0

\- end if

\- The truncated modulation and coding scheme field is interpreted such
that the modulation and coding scheme corresponding to the Random Access
Response grant is determined from MCS indices 0 through 15 in Table
8.6.1-1.

\- The TPC command ![](media/image62.wmf) shall be used for setting the
power of the PUSCH, and is interpreted according to Table 6.2-1.

end if

Table 6.2-1: TPC Command ![](media/image62.wmf) for Scheduled PUSCH

  TPC Command   Value (in dB)
  ------------- ---------------
  0             -6
  1             -4
  2             -2
  3             0
  4             2
  5             4
  6             6
  7             8

In non-contention based random access procedure, the CSI request field
is interpreted to determine whether an aperiodic CQI, PMI, RI, and CRI
report is included in the corresponding PUSCH transmission according to
Clause 7.2.1. In contention based random access procedure, the CSI
request field is reserved.

The UL delay applies for TDD, FDD and FDD-TDD and this field can be set
to 0 or 1 to indicate whether the delay of PUSCH is introduced as shown
in Clause 6.1.1. A BL/CE UE interpreting the contents of the random
access response according to CEModeB shall follow the description of UL
delay field set to 0.

7 Physical downlink shared channel related procedures
=====================================================

If the UE is configured with a SCG, the UE shall apply the procedures
described in this clause for both MCG and SCG unless stated otherwise

\- When the procedures are applied for MCG, the terms \'secondary
cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\', and \'serving cells\' in
this clause refer to secondary cell, secondary cells, serving cell or
serving cells belonging to the MCG respectively unless stated otherwise.
The terms \'subframe\' and \'subframes\' refer to subframe or subframes
belonging to MCG.

\- When the procedures are applied for SCG, the terms \'secondary
cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\' and \'serving cells\' in
this clause refer to secondary cell, secondary cells (not including the
PSCell), serving cell, serving cells belonging to the SCG respectively
unless stated otherwise. The term \'primary cell\' in this clause refers
to the PSCell of the SCG. The terms \'subframe\' and \'subframes\' refer
to subframe or subframes belonging to SCG

If a UE is configured with *dl-TTI-Length*, and PDSCH is received in a
slot, the term \'slot/subslot\' refers to a slot in this clause.

If the UE is configured with *dl-TTI-Length*, and PDSCH is received in a
subslot, the term \'slot/subslot\' refers to a subslot in this clause.

If a UE is configured with a LAA Scell, the UE shall apply the
procedures described in this clause assuming frame structure type 1 for
the LAA Scell unless stated otherwise.

For FDD,

\- if the UE supports *ce-pdsch-tenProcesses* and is configured with
CEModeA and higher layer parameter *ce-pdsch-tenProcesses-config* set to
\'*On*\' there shall be a maximum of 10 downlink HARQ processes per
serving cell;

\- 16 downlink HARQ processes per serving cell configured with higher
layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length*

\- otherwise, there shall be a maximum of 8 downlink HARQ processes per
serving cell.

For FDD-TDD and primary cell frame structure type 1, there shall be a
maximum of

\- 16 downlink HARQ processes per serving cell configured with higher
layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length*

\- 8 downlink HARQ processes per serving cell, otherwise.

For TDD and a UE not configured with the parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for any serving cell,, if the UE is
configured with one serving cell, or if the UE is configured with more
than one serving cell and the TDD UL/DL configuration of all the
configured serving cells is the same, the maximum number of downlink
HARQ processes per serving cell configured with higher layer parameter
*dl-TTI-Length* shall be 16, otherwise determined by the UL/DL
configuration (Table 4.2-2 of \[3\]), as indicated in Table 7-1.

For TDD, if a UE is configured with more than one serving cell and if
the TDD UL/DL configuration of at least two configured serving cells is
not the same, or if the UE is configured with the parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for at least one serving cell, or for
FDD-TDD and primary cell frame structure type 2 and serving cell frame
structure type 2, the maximum number of downlink HARQ processes for a
serving cell configured with higher layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length*
shall be 16*,* otherwise determined as indicated in Table 7-1, wherein
the \"TDD UL/DL configuration\" in Table 7-1 refers to the DL-reference
UL/DL configuration for the serving cell (as defined in Clause 10.2).

For FDD-TDD and primary cell frame structure type 2 and serving cell
frame structure type 1, the maximum number of downlink HARQ processes
for the serving cell configured with higher layer parameter
*dl-TTI-Length* shall be 16*,* otherwise determined by the DL-reference
UL/DL configuration for the serving cell (as defined in Clause 10.2), as
indicated in Table 7-2.

A BL/CE UE configured with CEModeB is not expected to support more than
4 downlink HARQ processes if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter ***ce-PDSCH-MultiTB-Config**,* 2 downlink HARQ processes
otherwise.

For TDD and a BL/CE configured with CEModeA, the maximum number of
downlink HARQ processes for a serving cell shall be determined as
indicated in Table 7-3.

For **a UE configured with EN-DC/NE-DC, if serving cell frame structure
type 1 and** if the UE is configured with
*tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the serving cell, or
**if** the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2* for a serving cell
with EN-DC, the maximum number of downlink HARQ processes for the
serving cell shall be determined by DL-reference UL/DL configuration
given by *tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC*/*tdm-PatternConfig2*
for the serving cell*,* as indicated in Table 7-2.

For a UE configured with EN-DC**/NE-DC** and more than one serving
cells, if primary cell frame structure type 1 and if the UE is
configured with *tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the
primary cell, or if the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2* for a
primary cell with EN-DC, the maximum number of downlink HARQ processes
for each secondary cell is equal to the maximum number of downlink HARQ
processes for the primary cell.

The dedicated broadcast HARQ process defined in \[8\] is not counted as
part of the maximum number of HARQ processes for FDD, TDD and FDD-TDD.

Table 7-1: Maximum number of DL HARQ processes for TDD

  TDD UL/DL configuration   Maximum number of HARQ processes
  ------------------------- ----------------------------------
  0                         4
  1                         7
  2                         10
  3                         9
  4                         12
  5                         15
  6                         6

Table 7-2: Maximum number of DL HARQ processes for FDD-TDD, primary cell
frame structure type 2, and serving cell frame structure type 1

+------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| **DL-reference UL/DL** | **Maximum number of HARQ processes** |
|                        |                                      |
| **Configuration**      |                                      |
+========================+======================================+
| 0                      | 10                                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| 1                      | 11                                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| 2                      | 12                                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| 3                      | 15                                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| 4                      | 16                                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| 5                      | 16                                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| 6                      | 12                                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------+

Table 7-3: Maximum number of DL HARQ processes for TDD\
(UE configured with CEModeA)

  TDD UL/DL configuration   Maximum number of HARQ processes
  ------------------------- ----------------------------------
  0                         6
  1                         9
  2                         12
  3                         11
  4                         14
  5                         16
  6                         8

7.1 UE procedure for receiving the physical downlink shared channel
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Except the subframes indicated by the higher layer parameter
*mbsfn-SubframeConfigList* or by *mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-v1250 or by
mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-v14xy or by laa-SCellSubframeConfig* of serving
cell ![](media/image63.wmf), a UE shall

\- upon detection of a PDCCH of the serving cell with DCI format 1, 1A,
1B, 1C, 1D, 2, 2A, 2B, 2C, or 2D intended for the UE in a subframe, or

\- upon detection of an EPDCCH of the serving cell with DCI format 1,
1A, 1B, 1D, 2, 2A, 2B, 2C, or 2D intended for the UE in a subframe, or

\- upon detection of a PDCCH of the serving cell with DCI format 7-1A,
7-1B, 7-1C, 7-1D, 7-1E, 7-1F, 7-1G intended for the UE in the first
slot/subslot of a subframe

\- upon detection of a SPDCCH of the serving cell with DCI format 7-1A,
7-1B, 7-1C, 7-1D, 7-1E, 7-1F, 7-1G intended for the UE in a slot/subslot

decode the corresponding PDSCH in the same subframe/slot/subslot with
the restriction of the number of transport blocks defined in the higher
layers, unless specified otherwise.

For a given serving cell, if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *blindSubframePDSCH-Repetitions*, the UE shall upon detection
of a PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1A with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI in
UE-specific search space of subframe *n*, intended for the UE, decode,
starting from subframe *n*, the corresponding PDSCH transmission in *k*
consecutive DL subframe(s) according to the PDCCH information, where the
value of *k* is determined by the repetition number field in the
corresponding DCI. For k\>1,

\- if the UE is configured with transmission mode 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or
8 for the serving cell, the *k* consecutive DL subframes do not include
MBSFN subframe(s).

\- the UE shall assume the truncated modulation and coding scheme field
is interpreted such that the modulation and coding scheme corresponding
to DCI format 1A is determined from MCS indices 0 through 15 if the
higher layer parameter *MCS-restrictionSubframePDSCH-Repetitions* is set
to \'1\'.

\- The UE shall assume all the *k* PDSCH data transmissions are received
in the same resource blocks.

\- For TDD cell, the *k* consecutive DL subframes include the *k* DL
subframes or special subframes according to the UL/DL configuration
indicated by higher layer parameter *subframeAssignment* for the serving
cell.

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12*, the UE shall discard any PDCCH/EPDCCH
for PDSCH data transmission with *k*\>1 in a subframe which has been
indicated as an UL subframe or a special subframe by higher layer
parameter *subframeAssignment* but indicated as a DL subframe by a PDCCH
with CRC scrambled by eIMTA-RNTI containing an UL/DL configuration for
the serving cell.

For a given serving cell, if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *blindSlotSubslotPDSCH-Repetitions*, the UE shall upon
detection of a PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI in
slot/sublot *n*, intended for the UE, decode, starting from slot/subslot
*n*, the corresponding PDSCH transmission in *k* consecutive DL
slot(s)/subslot(s) according to the PDCCH/SPDCCH information, where the
value of *k* is determined by the repetition number field in the
corresponding DCI. For *k*\>1,

\- the UE is not expected to receive the PDSCH data transmissions with
more than two transmission layers.

\- if the *k* consecutive DL slots/subslots cross two consecutive
subframes with different downlink transmission modes, the UE is not
expected to receive the PDSCH data transmissions after the former
subframe.

\- for DCI format 7-1F/7-1G, the UE shall assume the value of the DMRS
position indicator field (defined in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[4\]) is set to
\'0\'.

\- the UE shall assume the modulation and coding scheme corresponding to
DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G is determined from MCS
indices 0 through 15 if the higher layer parameter
*MCS-restrictionSlotSubslotPDSCH-Repetitions* is set to \'1\'.

\- the UE shall assume the \"PDSCH RE Mapping and Quasi-Co-Location
Indicator\" field is applied to all the *k* PDSCH data transmissions
signaled via PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-1G.

\- the UE shall assume the \"precoding information\" field is applied to
all the *k* PDSCH data transmissions signaled via PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-1C.

\- the UE shall assume the \"TPMI information for precoding\" field is
applied to all the *k* PDSCH data transmissions signaled via
PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-1D.

\- the UE shall assume all the *k* PDSCH data transmissions are received
in the same resource blocks.

\- For FDD cell,

\- the UE may assume that the same precoder applies to all scheduled *k*
PDSCH transmissions.

\- subslot 0 of a subframe is not counted as a DL subslot for *k* PDSCH
transmissions if the CFI value is 2 or 3.

\- For TDD cell,

\- the UE may assume that the same precoder applies to those of the *k*
scheduled PDSCH transmissions occur between guard periods of two
adjacent special subframes. [ ]{.underline}

\- the *k* consecutive DL slots include the *k* DL slots of DL subframe
or DwPTS according to the UL/DL configuration indicated by higher layer
parameter *subframeAssignment* for the serving cell.

For BL/CE UEs, *the set of BL/CE DL subframes is indicated as follows*

\- If DL resource reservation is enabled for the UE as specified in
\[11\],

\- for PDSCH transmission associated with C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI using
UE-specific MPDCCH search space including PDSCH transmission without a
corresponding MPDCCH,

\- if the Resource reservation field in the DCI is set to 0, then the
set of BL/CE DL subframes corresponds to all downlink subframes and
special subframes during the PDSCH transmission;

\- if the Resource reservation field in the DCI is set to 1, then the
set of BL/CE DL subframes corresponds to all downlink subframes and
special subframes that are not fully reserved according to higher layer
parameters (a subframe is considered fully reserved if and only if all
OFDM symbols of all PRBs of the PDSCH transmission are reserved in the
subframe);

\- for MPDCCH transmission associated with C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI using
UE-specific MPDCCH search space,

\- the set of BL/CE DL subframes corresponds to all downlink subframes
and available special subframes that are not fully reserved according to
higher layer parameters (a subframe is considered fully reserved if and
only if all OFDM symbols of all PRBs of the MPDCCH transmission are
reserved in the subframe).

\- In all other cases, the set of BL/CE DL subframes is indicated by the
higher layers *according to fdd-DownlinkOrTddSubframeBitmapBR \[11\].*

A BL/CE UE shall upon detection of a MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A, 6-1B,
6-2 intended for the UE, decode the corresponding PDSCH in one more
*BL/CE DL subframes* as described in Clause 7.1.11, with the restriction
of the number of transport blocks defined in the higher layers.

For the purpose of decoding PDSCH containing
*SystemInformationBlockType2,* a BL/CE UE shall assume that subframes in
which *SystemInformationBlockType2* is scheduled are non-MBSFN
subframes.

If a UE is configured with more than one serving cell and if the frame
structure type of any two configured serving cells is different, then
the UE is considered to be configured for FDD-TDD carrier aggregation.

Except for MBMS reception, the UE is not required to monitor PDCCH with
CRC scrambled by the SI-RNTI on the PSCell.

A UE may assume that positioning reference signals are not present in
resource blocks in which it shall decode PDSCH according to a detected
PDCCH with CRC scrambled by the SI-RNTI or P-RNTI with DCI format 1A or
1C intended for the UE.

A UE configured with the carrier indicator field for a given serving
cell shall assume that the carrier indicator field is not present in any
PDCCH of the serving cell in the common search space that is described
in Clause 9.1. Otherwise, the configured UE shall assume that for the
given serving cell the carrier indicator field is present in
PDCCH/EPDCCH located in the UE specific search space described in Clause
9.1 when the PDCCH/EPDCCH CRC is scrambled by C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI.

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the SI-RNTI, the UE shall decode the PDCCH and the
corresponding PDSCH according to any of the combinations defined in
Table 7.1-1. The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to
these PDCCHs is by SI-RNTI.

A UE operating in an MBMS-dedicated carrier may be configured with two
SI-RNTI values, in which case the UE shall apply the procedure described
in this clause for each of the SI-RNTIs.

Table 7.1-1: PDCCH and PDSCH configured by SI-RNTI

  DCI format      Search Space   Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to PDCCH
  --------------- -------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DCI format 1C   Common         If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2).
  DCI format 1A   Common         If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2).

For BL/CE UE, for PDSCH carrying *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* and
SI-messages, the UE shall decode PDSCH according to Table 7.1-1A. The
scrambling initialization of PDSCH is by SI-RNTI.

Table 7.1-1A: PDSCH configured by SI-RNTI

  Transmission scheme of PDSCH
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2).

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-ETWS-CMAS-RxInConn* and configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH
with CRC scrambled by the SI-RNTI, the UE shall decode the MPDCCH
according to any of the combinations defined in Table 7.1-1B.

Table 7.1-1B: MPDCCH configured by SI-RNTI

  DCI format     Search Space
  -------------- --------------
  6-1A or 6-1B   Type0-common

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the P-RNTI, the UE shall decode the PDCCH and the
corresponding PDSCH according to any of the combinations defined in
Table 7.1-2.\
The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to these PDCCHs is
by P-RNTI.

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the P-RNTI, the UE shall decode the MPDCCH and any
corresponding PDSCH according to any of the combinations defined in
Table 7.1-2A.\
The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to these MPDCCHs is
by P-RNTI.

The UE is not required to monitor PDCCH with CRC scrambled by the P-RNTI
on the PSCell.

Table 7.1-2: PDCCH and PDSCH configured by P-RNTI

  DCI format      Search Space   Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to PDCCH
  --------------- -------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DCI format 1C   Common         If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  DCI format 1A   Common         If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)

Table 7.1-2A: MPDCCH and PDSCH configured by P-RNTI

  DCI format   Search Space   Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to MPDCCH
  ------------ -------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  6-2          Type1-common   If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the RA-RNTI, the UE shall decode the PDCCH and the
corresponding PDSCH according to any of the combinations defined in
Table 7.1-3. The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to
these PDCCHs is by RA-RNTI.

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the RA-RNTI, the UE shall decode the MPDCCH and the
corresponding PDSCH according to any of the combinations defined in
Table 7.1-3A. The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to
these MPDCCHs is by RA-RNTI.

When RA-RNTI and either C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI are assigned in the same
subframe, the UE is not required to decode a PDSCH on the primary cell
indicated by a PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with a CRC scrambled by C-RNTI or SPS
C-RNTI.

Table 7.1-3: PDCCH and PDSCH configured by RA-RNTI

  DCI format      Search Space   Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to PDCCH
  --------------- -------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DCI format 1C   Common         If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  DCI format 1A   Common         If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)

Table 7.1-3A: MPDCCH and PDSCH configured by RA-RNTI

  DCI format     Search Space   Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to MPDCCH
  -------------- -------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  6-1A or 6-1B   Type2-common   If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the G-RNTI or SC-RNTI, the UE shall decode the PDCCH and
the corresponding PDSCH according to any of the combinations defined in
Table 7.1-4. The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to
these PDCCHs is by G-RNTI or SC-RNTI.

Table 7.1-4: PDCCH and PDSCH configured by G-RNTI or SC-RNTI

  DCI format      Search Space   Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to PDCCH
  --------------- -------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DCI format 1C   Common         If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2).
  DCI format 1A   Common         If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2).

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the SC-N-RNTI, the UE shall decode the PDCCH according to
the combination defined in table 7.1-4A.

Table 7.1-4A: PDCCH configured by SC-N-RNTI

  DCI format      Search Space
  --------------- --------------
  DCI format 1C   Common

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the SC-RNTI, the UE shall decode the MPDCCH according to
the combination defined in table 7.1-4B.

Table 7.1-4B: MPDCCH and PDSCH configured by SC-RNTI

  DCI format   Search Space    Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to MPDCCH
  ------------ --------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  6-2          Type1A-common   If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the G-RNTI, the UE shall decode the MPDCCH according to the
combination defined in table 7.1-4C.

Table 7.1-4C: MPDCCH and PDSCH configured by G-RNTI

  DCI format     Search Space    Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to MPDCCH
  -------------- --------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  6-1A or 6-1B   Type2A-common   If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)

The UE is semi-statically configured via higher layer signalling to
receive PDSCH data transmissions signalled via PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI
formats other than 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G according to one
of the transmission modes, denoted mode 1 to mode 10. If the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length*, the UE is
semi-statically configured via higher layer signalling to receive PDSCH
transmissions signalled via PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI formats
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G according to

\- one of the transmission modes, denoted mode 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 10 for
frame structure type 1, and mode 1,2,3,4,6,8,9,10 for frame structure
type 2 in non-MBSFN subframes.

\- one of the transmission modes, denoted mode 9, 10 for frame structure
type 1 and frame structure type 2 in MBSFN subframes

For a BL/CE UE, the UE is semi-statically configured via higher layer
signalling to receive PDSCH data transmissions signalled via MPDCCH
according to one of the transmission modes: mode 1, mode 2, mode 6, and
mode 9.

For LAA Scells, the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH data
transmissions signalled via PDCCH/EPDCCH according to transmission modes
5, 6, 7.

For a serving cell, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI,* and if the UE does not support
*pdsch-SlotSubslotPDSCH-Decoding* (3GPP TS 36.331 \[11\]), the UE is not
expected to receive PDSCH data transmissions signalled via PDCCH with
CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI/SPS C-RNTI and DCI Formats other than DCI
Format 7-1 A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G in a subframe, if also PDSCHs
assigned by PDCCH/SPDCCH associated with DCI Format 7-1
A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G is received in the same subframe of the
same serving cell. Additionally, the UE shall transmit HARQ-ACK
associated with both the subframe-PDSCH and slot/subslot-PDSCH,
regardless of the support of *pdsch-SlotSubslotPDSCH-Decoding.*

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI,* the UE may
skip decoding any transport block(s) received in PDSCH transmissions
signalled via PDCCH/EPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI/SPS C-RNTI
and DCI Formats other than DCI Format 7-1
A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G in the last *W~DL~* subframes if the UE
has detected PDCCH/SPDCCH associated with DCI Format 7-1
A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, and if is indicated by
*skipSubframeProcessing* capability \[12\]. If the UE skips decoding,
the physical layer indicates to higher layer that the transport block(s)
are not successfully decoded.

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI,* and for
PDSCH data transmissions in subslot *n* signalled via PDCCH/SPDCCH of a
serving cell

\- with DCI format 7-1F/7-1G, the UE is not expected to receive
UE-specific reference signals corresponding to a transport block mapped
to more than two-layer spatial multiplexing in subslot *n* of subframe
*N*,

\- if the UE has received UE-specific reference signals corresponding to
a transport block mapped to more than two-layer spatial multiplexing in
subslot *n-1* of subframe *N* or

\- if *n*=0 and if the UE has received UE-specific reference signals
corresponding to a transport block mapped to more than two-layer spatial
multiplexing in subslot 5 of subframe *N-1*, and if the UE does not
support *dmrs-RepetitionSubslotPDSCH* (3GPP TS 36.331 \[11\])

\- with DCI format 7-1F/7-1G, the UE may assume that UE-specific
reference signals were present in those PRGs of subslot *n-1*, where
PDSCH is mapped to

if the DCI associated with the subslot-PDSCH indicates the absence of
the UE-specific reference signal in subslot *n* (See DMRS position
indicator field in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[4\]).

For a serving cell, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI,* the UE is not expected to receive

\- PDSCH data transmissions signalled via PDCCH/SPDCCH of the serving
cell with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI/SPS C-RNTI and DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G for a transport block corresponding
to a HARQ process with NDI not toggled if the previous PDSCH
transmission of the transport block was signalled via PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the C-RNTI/SPS C-RNTI with DCI format other than DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G when the number of codewords for the
previous PDSCH transmissions is two or the transport block size is more
than the maximum transport block size supported for slot/subslot-PDSCH
transmission.

\- PDSCH data transmissions signalled via PDCCH/SPDCCH of the serving
cell with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI/SPS C-RNTI and DCI format
7-1F/7-1G in subslot *n*, if the PDCCH/SPDCCH indicates the absence of
the UE-specific reference signal in subslot *n and*

\- if *n*=0 and if the UE does not support *dmrs-SharingSubslotPDSCH*
(3GPP TS 36.331 \[11\]) or

*- if the UE has not received a* PDCCH/SPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the
C-RNTI/SPS C-RNTI and DCI format 7-1F/7-1G in one subslot before subslot
*n* or

*- if the UE has received a* PDCCH/SPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the
C-RNTI/SPS C-RNTI DCI format 7-1F/7-1G in one subslot before subslot *n*
indicating

\- the absence of the UE-specific reference signal in one subslot before
subslot *n or*

\- the presence of the UE-specific reference signal in one subslot
before subslot *n*

*- if the* PDSCH PRGs of one subslot before subslot *n* do not include
all the PDSCH PRGs of subslot *n* or

\- if the number of antenna ports associated with the PDSCH of one
subslot before subslot *n* is less than the number of antenna ports
associated with the PDSCH of subslot *n* or

\- if the number of antenna ports associated with the PDSCH of both
subslot *n and* one subslot before subslot *n* is 1 but different
antenna port is indicated between subslot *n and* one subslot before the
subslot *n*

The UE shall provide the HARQ-ACK response associated with the
PDCCH/SPDCCH received in subslot *n* if the UE has not received a
PDCCH/SPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI/SPS C-RNTI and DCI format
7-1F/7-1G in one subslot before the subslot *n*.

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime*,

\- the UE is not expected to receive PDCCH in common search space for
which HARQ-ACK response shall be provided in a subframe *n*, and PDCCH
in UE specific search space for which HARQ-ACK response shall be
provided in the same subframe *n*.

\- the UE is not expected to receive PDCCH in common search space in
subframe *n*, and PDCCH in UE specific search space in the same subframe
*n*.

For frame structure type 1,

\- the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH resource blocks transmitted
on antenna port 5 in any subframe in which the number of OFDM symbols
for PDCCH with normal CP is equal to four;

\- a non-BL/CE UE is not expected to receive PDSCH resource blocks
transmitted on antenna port 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14 in the two
PRBs to which a pair of VRBs is mapped if either one of the two PRBs
overlaps in frequency with a transmission of either PBCH or primary or
secondary synchronization signals in the same subframe;

\- the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH resource blocks transmitted
on antenna port 7 for which distributed VRB resource allocation is
assigned.

\- The UE may skip decoding the transport block(s) if it does not
receive all assigned PDSCH resource blocks except if it is capable of
receiving the non-colliding PDSCH resource blocks in an assignment which
partly collides in frequency with a transmission of PBCH or primary
synchronization signal or secondary synchronization signal in the same
subframes and that capability is indicated by *pdsch-CollisionHandling*
\[12\]. If the UE skips decoding, the physical layer indicates to higher
layer that the transport block(s) are not successfully decoded.

For frame structure type 2,

\- the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH resource blocks transmitted
on antenna port 5 in any subframe in which the number of OFDM symbols
for PDCCH with normal CP is equal to four;

\- the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH resource blocks transmitted
on antenna port 5 in the two PRBs to which a pair of VRBs is mapped if
either one of the two PRBs overlaps in frequency with a transmission of
PBCH in the same subframe;

\- a non-BL/CE UE is not expected to receive PDSCH resource blocks
transmitted on antenna port 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14 in the two
PRBs to which a pair of VRBs is mapped if either one of the two PRBs
overlaps in frequency with a transmission of primary or secondary
synchronization signals in the same subframe;

\- with normal CP configuration, the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH
on antenna port 5 for which distributed VRB resource allocation is
assigned in the special subframe with configuration \#1 or \#6;

\- the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH on antenna port 7 for which
distributed VRB resource allocation is assigned;

\- with normal cyclic prefix, the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH
resource blocks transmitted on antenna port 5 in DwPTS when the UE is
configured with special subframe configuration 9 or 10.

\- The UE may skip decoding the transport block(s) if it does not
receive all assigned PDSCH resource blocks except if it is capable of
receiving the non-colliding PDSCH resource blocks in an assignment which
partly collides in frequency with a transmission of PBCH or primary
synchronization signal or secondary synchronization signal in the same
subframe and that capability is indicated by *pdsch-CollisionHandling*
\[12\]. If the UE skips decoding, the physical layer indicates to higher
layer that the transport block(s) are not successfully decoded.

\- If the UE is not configured for PUSCH/PUCCH transmission for at least
one TDD serving cell, the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH on serving
cell ![](media/image65.wmf) if the PDSCH overlaps in time with SRS
transmission (including any interruption due to uplink or downlink RF
retuning time \[10\]) on TDD serving cell ![](media/image66.wmf) not
configured for PUSCH/PUCCH transmission, and if the UE is not capable of
simultaneous reception and transmission on serving cell
![](media/image65.wmf)and serving cell ![](media/image67.wmf).

> \- if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* for a
> serving cell, the UE is not expected to

\- receive PDSCH data transmissions signalled via PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G in

\- DwPTS when the UE is configured with special subframe configuration 0
and 5;

\- the second slot of DwPTS when the UE is configured with special
subframe configuration 1, 2, 6 and 7.

\- be configured with *EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for the serving
cell.

**For a UE configured with EN-DC/NE-DC and serving cell frame structure
type 1,** if the UE is configured with
*tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the serving cell, or if
the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2* for the serving cell
**with EN-DC,** the UE is not expected to receive PDSCH data
transmissions signalled via PDCCH in common search space for which
HARQ-ACK response shall be provided in a subframe *n*, and PDSCH data
transmissions signalled via PDCCH/EPDCCH in UE specific search space for
which HARQ-ACK response shall be provided in the same subframe *n*.

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the C-RNTI, the UE shall decode the PDCCH and any
corresponding PDSCH according to the respective combinations defined in
Table 7.1-5. The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to
these PDCCHs is by C-RNTI. The UE shall decode the PDCCH DCI Format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G only if the UE is configured with
higher layer parameter *shortTTI*.

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode EPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the C-RNTI, the UE shall decode the EPDCCH and any
corresponding PDSCH according to the respective combinations defined in
Table 7.1-5A. The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to
these EPDCCHs is by C-RNTI.

If a BL/CE UE is configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the C-RNTI except for random access procedure, the UE shall
decode the MPDCCH and any corresponding PDSCH according to the
respective combinations defined in Table 7.1-5B. The scrambling
initialization of PDSCH corresponding to these MPDCCHs is by C-RNTI.

If a UE is configured with CEModeA, the UE shall decode MPDCCH DCI
Format 6-1A. If the UE is configured with CEModeB, the UE shall decode
MPDCCH DCI Format 6-1B.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and the UE
is configured by higher layers to decode SPDCCH with CRC scrambled by
the C-RNTI, the UE shall decode the SPDCCH and any corresponding PDSCH
according to the respective combinations defined in Table 7.1-5C. The
scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to these SPDCCHs is by
C-RNTI.

If the UE is configured with the carrier indicator field for a given
serving cell and, if the UE is configured by higher layers to decode
PDCCH/EPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI, then the UE shall decode
PDSCH of the serving cell indicated by the carrier indicator field value
in the decoded PDCCH/EPDCCH.

When a UE configured in transmission mode 3, 4, 8, 9 or 10 receives a
DCI Format 1A assignment, it shall assume that the PDSCH transmission is
associated with transport block 1 and that transport block 2 is
disabled.

When a UE is configured in transmission mode 7, scrambling
initialization of UE-specific reference signals corresponding to these
PDCCHs/EPDCCHs is by C-RNTI.

The UE does not support transmission mode 8 if extended cyclic prefix is
used in the downlink.

When a UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, in the downlink
subframes indicated by the higher layer parameter
*mbsfn-SubframeConfigList* or by *mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-v1250 or by
mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-v14xy or by laa-SCellSubframeConfig* of serving
cell ![](media/image63.wmf) except in subframes for the serving cell

\- indicated by higher layers to decode PMCH or,

\- configured by higher layers to be part of a positioning reference
signal occasion and the positioning reference signal occasion is only
configured within MBSFN subframes and the cyclic prefix length used in
subframe \#0 is normal cyclic prefix,

the UE shall upon detection of a PDCCH with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI
with DCI format 1A/2C/2D intended for the UE or, upon detection of an
EPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI with DCI format 1A/2C/2D
intended for the UE, decode the corresponding PDSCH in the same
subframe.

A UE configured in transmission mode 10 can be configured with
scrambling identities, ![](media/image68.wmf), ![](media/image69.wmf) by
higher layers for UE-specific reference signal generation as defined in
Clause 6.10.3.1 of \[3\] to decode PDSCH according to a detected
PDCCH/EPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI with DCI format 2D
intended for the UE.

Table 7.1-5: PDCCH and PDSCH configured by C-RNTI

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Transmission   | DCI format     | Search Space   | Transmission   |
| mode           |                |                | scheme of      |
|                |                |                | PDSCH          |
|                |                |                | corresponding  |
|                |                |                | to PDCCH       |
+================+================+================+================+
| **Mode 1**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 0   |
|                |                | UE specific by | (see Clause    |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1   | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                | and 7-1A       | C-RNTI         | port, port 0   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 2**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1   | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | and 7-1A       | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 3**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2A  | UE specific by | Large delay    |
|                | and 7-1B       | C-RNTI         | CDD (see       |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.3)  |
|                |                |                | or Transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 4**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2   | UE specific by | Closed-loop    |
|                | and 7-1C       | C-RNTI         | spatial        |
|                |                |                | multiplexing   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.4)or       |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 5**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1D  | UE specific by | Multi-user     |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | MIMO (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.5)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 6**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1B  | UE specific by | Closed-loop    |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | spatial        |
|                |                |                | multiplexing   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.4) using a |
|                |                |                | single         |
|                |                |                | transmission   |
|                |                |                | layer          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format     | UE specific by | Closed-loop    |
|                | 7-1D           | C-RNTI         | spatial        |
|                |                |                | multiplexing   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.4) using a |
|                |                |                | single         |
|                |                |                | transmission   |
|                |                |                | layer or       |
|                |                |                | transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 7**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | If the number  |
|                |                |                | of PBCH        |
|                |                | UE specific by | antenna ports  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | is one,        |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 0   |
|                |                |                | is used (see   |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1), |
|                |                |                | otherwise      |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1   | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | port, port 5   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 8**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and\    | If the number  |
|                |                | UE specific by | of PBCH        |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | antenna ports  |
|                |                |                | is one,        |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 0   |
|                |                |                | is used (see   |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1), |
|                |                |                | otherwise      |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2B  | UE specific by | Dual layer     |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | port 7 and 8   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5A) or     |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format     | UE specific by | Dual layer     |
|                | 7-1E           | C-RNTI         | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | port 7 and 8   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5A) or     |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or Transmit    |
|                |                |                | Diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7 and 8   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.2)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 9**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and UE  | -   Non-MBSFN  |
|                |                | specific by    |     subframe:  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |     If the     |
|                |                |                |     number of  |
|                |                |                |     PBCH       |
|                |                |                |     antenna    |
|                |                |                |     ports is   |
|                |                |                |     one,       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                |     port, port |
|                |                |                |     0 is used  |
|                |                |                |     (see       |
|                |                |                |     Clause     |
|                |                |                |     7.1.1),    |
|                |                |                |     otherwise  |
|                |                |                |     Transmit   |
|                |                |                |     diversity  |
|                |                |                |     (see       |
|                |                |                |     Clause     |
|                |                |                |     7.1.2)     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -   MBSFN      |
|                |                |                |     subframe:  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                |     port, port |
|                |                |                |     7 (see     |
|                |                |                |     Clause     |
|                |                |                |     7.1.1)     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2C  | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | or dual layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission   |
|                |                |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |                |                | Clause         |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5A), if UE |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *              |
|                |                |                | semiOpenLoop,* |
|                |                |                | up to 8 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-14     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B)        |
|                |                |                | otherwise; or  |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7,  |
|                |                |                | 8, 11, or 13   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *d             |
|                |                |                | mrs-tableAlt,* |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | otherwise      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1F           | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2), |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *sem           |
|                |                |                | iOpenLoopSTTI* |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 2 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-8 (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.5B) |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if the UE is   |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 2layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 4 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-10     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B) or     |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if the UE is   |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 4layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 4 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-10     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B)        |
|                |                |                | otherwise; or  |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1). |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 10**    | DCI format 1A  | Common and UE  | -   Non-MBSFN  |
|                |                | specific by    |     subframe:  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |     If the     |
|                |                |                |     number of  |
|                |                |                |     PBCH       |
|                |                |                |     antenna    |
|                |                |                |     ports is   |
|                |                |                |     one,       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                |     port, port |
|                |                |                |     0 is used  |
|                |                |                |     (see       |
|                |                |                |     Clause     |
|                |                |                |     7.1.1),    |
|                |                |                |     otherwise  |
|                |                |                |     Transmit   |
|                |                |                |     diversity  |
|                |                |                |     (see       |
|                |                |                |     Clause     |
|                |                |                |     7.1.2)     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -   MBSFN      |
|                |                |                |     subframe:  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                |     port, port |
|                |                |                |     7 (see     |
|                |                |                |     Clause     |
|                |                |                |     7.1.1)     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2D  | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | or dual layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission   |
|                |                |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |                |                | Clause         |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5A), if UE |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *              |
|                |                |                | semiOpenLoop,* |
|                |                |                | up to 8 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-14     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B)        |
|                |                |                | otherwise; or  |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7,  |
|                |                |                | 8, 11, or 13   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *d             |
|                |                |                | mrs-tableAlt*, |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | otherwise      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format     | US specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1G           | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2), |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *semi          |
|                |                |                | OpenLoopSTTI*. |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 2 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-8 (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.5B) |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if the UE is   |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 2layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 4 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-10     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B) or     |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if the UE is   |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TxDiv- |
|                |                |                | 4layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 4 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-10     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B)        |
|                |                |                | otherwise, or  |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 7.1-5A: EPDCCH and PDSCH configured by C-RNTI

+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| Transmission   | DCI format    | Search Space   | Transmission   |
| mode           |               |                | scheme of      |
|                |               |                | PDSCH          |
|                |               |                | corresponding  |
|                |               |                | to EPDCCH      |
+================+===============+================+================+
| **Mode 1**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | port, port 0   |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1  | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | port, port 0   |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 2**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1  | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 3**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2A | UE specific by | Large delay    |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | CDD (see       |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.3)  |
|                |               |                | or Transmit    |
|                |               |                | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 4**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2  | UE specific by | Closed-loop    |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | spatial        |
|                |               |                | multiplexing   |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.4)or       |
|                |               |                | Transmit       |
|                |               |                | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 5**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1D | UE specific by | Multi-user     |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | MIMO (see      |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.5)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 6**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1B | UE specific by | Closed-loop    |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | spatial        |
|                |               |                | multiplexing   |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.4) using a |
|                |               |                | single         |
|                |               |                | transmission   |
|                |               |                | layer          |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 7**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | If the number  |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | of PBCH        |
|                |               |                | antenna ports  |
|                |               |                | is one,        |
|                |               |                | Single-antenna |
|                |               |                | port, port 0   |
|                |               |                | is used (see   |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.1), |
|                |               |                | otherwise      |
|                |               |                | Transmit       |
|                |               |                | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1  | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | port, port 5   |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 8**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | If the number  |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | of PBCH        |
|                |               |                | antenna ports  |
|                |               |                | is one,        |
|                |               |                | Single-antenna |
|                |               |                | port, port 0   |
|                |               |                | is used (see   |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.1), |
|                |               |                | otherwise      |
|                |               |                | Transmit       |
|                |               |                | diversity (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2B | UE specific by | Dual layer     |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | transmission,  |
|                |               |                | port 7 and 8   |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.5A) or     |
|                |               |                | single-antenna |
|                |               |                | port, port 7   |
|                |               |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 9**     | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | -   Non-MBSFN  |
|                |               | C-RNTI         |     subframe:  |
|                |               |                |     If the     |
|                |               |                |     number of  |
|                |               |                |     PBCH       |
|                |               |                |     antenna    |
|                |               |                |     ports is   |
|                |               |                |     one,       |
|                |               |                |                |
|                |               |                | Single-antenna |
|                |               |                |     port, port |
|                |               |                |     0 is used  |
|                |               |                |     (see       |
|                |               |                |     Clause     |
|                |               |                |     7.1.1),    |
|                |               |                |     otherwise  |
|                |               |                |     Transmit   |
|                |               |                |     diversity  |
|                |               |                |     (see       |
|                |               |                |     Clause     |
|                |               |                |     7.1.2)     |
|                |               |                |                |
|                |               |                | -   MBSFN      |
|                |               |                |     subframe:  |
|                |               |                |                |
|                |               |                | Single-antenna |
|                |               |                |     port, port |
|                |               |                |     7 (see     |
|                |               |                |     Clause     |
|                |               |                |     7.1.1)     |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2C | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |               |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |               |                | or dual layer  |
|                |               |                | transmission   |
|                |               |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |               |                | Clause         |
|                |               |                | 7.1.5A), if UE |
|                |               |                | is configured  |
|                |               |                | with higher    |
|                |               |                | layer          |
|                |               |                | parameter      |
|                |               |                | *              |
|                |               |                | semiOpenLoop,* |
|                |               |                | up to 8 layer  |
|                |               |                | transmission,  |
|                |               |                | ports 7-14     |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.5B)        |
|                |               |                | otherwise; or  |
|                |               |                | single-antenna |
|                |               |                | port, port 7,  |
|                |               |                | 8, 11, or 13   |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |               |                | is configured  |
|                |               |                | with higher    |
|                |               |                | layer          |
|                |               |                | parameter      |
|                |               |                | *d             |
|                |               |                | mrs-tableAlt*, |
|                |               |                | single-antenna |
|                |               |                | port, port 7   |
|                |               |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |               |                | otherwise      |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 10**    | DCI format 1A | UE specific by | -   Non-MBSFN  |
|                |               | C-RNTI         |     subframe:  |
|                |               |                |     If the     |
|                |               |                |     number of  |
|                |               |                |     PBCH       |
|                |               |                |     antenna    |
|                |               |                |     ports is   |
|                |               |                |     one,       |
|                |               |                |                |
|                |               |                | Single-antenna |
|                |               |                |     port, port |
|                |               |                |     0 is used  |
|                |               |                |     (see       |
|                |               |                |     Clause     |
|                |               |                |     7.1.1),    |
|                |               |                |     otherwise  |
|                |               |                |     Transmit   |
|                |               |                |     diversity  |
|                |               |                |     (see       |
|                |               |                |     Clause     |
|                |               |                |     7.1.2)     |
|                |               |                |                |
|                |               |                | -   MBSFN      |
|                |               |                |     subframe:  |
|                |               |                |                |
|                |               |                | Single-antenna |
|                |               |                |     port, port |
|                |               |                |     7 (see     |
|                |               |                |     Clause     |
|                |               |                |     7.1.1)     |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2D | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |               | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |               |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |               |                | or dual layer  |
|                |               |                | transmission   |
|                |               |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |               |                | Clause         |
|                |               |                | 7.1.5A), if UE |
|                |               |                | is configured  |
|                |               |                | with higher    |
|                |               |                | layer          |
|                |               |                | parameter      |
|                |               |                | *              |
|                |               |                | semiOpenLoop,* |
|                |               |                | up to 8 layer  |
|                |               |                | transmission,  |
|                |               |                | ports 7-14     |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.5B)        |
|                |               |                | otherwise; or  |
|                |               |                | single-antenna |
|                |               |                | port, port 7,  |
|                |               |                | 8, 11, or 13   |
|                |               |                | (see Clause    |
|                |               |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |               |                | is configured  |
|                |               |                | with higher    |
|                |               |                | layer          |
|                |               |                | parameter      |
|                |               |                | *d             |
|                |               |                | mrs-tableAlt*, |
|                |               |                | single-antenna |
|                |               |                | port, port 7   |
|                |               |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |               |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |               |                | otherwise      |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 7.1-5B: MPDCCH and PDSCH configured by C-RNTI

  Transmission mode   DCI format     Search Space            Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to MPDCCH
  ------------------- -------------- ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Mode 1**          6-1A           Type0-Common            Single-antenna port, port 0 (see Clause 7.1.1)
                      6-1A or 6-1B   UE specific by C-RNTI   
  **Mode 2**          6-1A           Type0-Common            Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
                      6-1A or 6-1B   UE specific by C-RNTI   
  **Mode 6**          6-1A           Type0-Common            Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
                      6-1A           UE specific by C-RNTI   Closed-loop spatial multiplexing (see Clause 7.1.4) using a single transmission layer
  **Mode 9**          6-1A           Type0-Common            If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
                      6-1A           UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 7 or 8 (see Clause 7.1.1)
                      6-1B           UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 7 (see Clause 7.1.1)

Table 7.1-5C: SPDCCH and PDSCH configured by C-RNTI

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Transmission   | DCI format     | Search Space   | Transmission   |
| mode           |                |                | scheme of      |
|                |                |                | PDSCH          |
|                |                |                | corresponding  |
|                |                |                | to SPDCCH      |
+================+================+================+================+
| **Mode 1**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                | 7-1A           | C-RNTI         | port, port 0   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 2**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1A           | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 3**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Large delay    |
|                | 7-1B           | C-RNTI         | CDD (see       |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.3)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 4**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Closed-loop    |
|                | 7-1C           | C-RNTI         | spatial        |
|                |                |                | multiplexing   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.4) or      |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 6**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Closed-loop    |
|                | 7-1D           | C-RNTI         | spatial        |
|                |                |                | multiplexing   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.4) using a |
|                |                |                | single         |
|                |                |                | transmission   |
|                |                |                | layer or       |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 8**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Dual layer     |
|                | 7-1E           | C-RNTI         | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | port 7 and 8   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5A) or     |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or Transmit    |
|                |                |                | Diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7 and     |
|                |                |                | port 8 (see    |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 9**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1F           | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2), |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *semi          |
|                |                |                | OpenLoopSTTI.* |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 2 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-8 (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.5B) |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Sublause       |
|                |                |                | 7.1.2) if the  |
|                |                |                | UE is          |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 2layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 4 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-10     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B) or     |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if the UE is   |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 4layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 4 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-10     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B)        |
|                |                |                | otherwise; or  |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1). |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 10**    | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1G           | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2), |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *semi          |
|                |                |                | OpenLoopSTTI.* |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 2 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.5B) |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if the UE is   |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 2layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 4 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-10     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B) or     |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (See      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | or transmit    |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8 (see  |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if the UE is   |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | *slotSubslot   |
|                |                |                | PDSCH-TXDiv-   |
|                |                |                | 4layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Up to 4 layer  |
|                |                |                | transmission,  |
|                |                |                | ports 7-10     |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.5B)        |
|                |                |                | otherwise; or  |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1). |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the SPS C-RNTI, the UE shall decode the PDCCH on the
primary cell and any corresponding PDSCH on the primary cell according
to the respective combinations defined in Table 7.1-6 unless the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and for DCI
formats 1/1A/2/2A/2B/2C/2D mapped onto the UE-specific search space. The
same PDSCH related configuration applies in the case that a PDSCH is
transmitted without a corresponding PDCCH. The scrambling initialization
of PDSCH corresponding to these PDCCHs and PDSCH without a corresponding
PDCCH is by SPS C-RNTI.

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode EPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the SPS C-RNTI, the UE shall decode the EPDCCH on the
primary cell and any corresponding PDSCH on the primary cell according
to the respective combinations defined in Table 7.1-6A. The same PDSCH
related configuration applies in the case that a PDSCH is transmitted
without a corresponding EPDCCH. The scrambling initialization of PDSCH
corresponding to these EPDCCHs and PDSCH without a corresponding EPDCCH
is by SPS C-RNTI.

If a UE configured with CEModeA is configured by higher layers to decode
MPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the SPS C-RNTI, the UE shall decode the
MPDCCH on the primary cell and any corresponding PDSCH on the primary
cell according to the respective combinations defined in Table 7.1-6B.
The same PDSCH related configuration applies in the case that a PDSCH is
transmitted without a corresponding MPDCCH. The scrambling
initialization of PDSCH corresponding to these MPDCCHs and PDSCH without
a corresponding MPDCCH is by SPS C-RNTI.

When a UE is configured in transmission mode 7, scrambling
initialization of UE-specific reference signals for PDSCH corresponding
to these PDCCHs/EPDCCHs and for PDSCH without a corresponding
PDCCH/EPDCCH is by SPS C-RNTI.

When a UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, in the downlink
subframes indicated by the higher layer parameter
*mbsfn-SubframeConfigList* or by *mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-v1250 or by
mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-v14xy* of serving cell ![](media/image63.wmf)
except in subframes for the serving cell

\- indicated by higher layers to decode PMCH or,

\- configured by higher layers to be part of a positioning reference
signal occasion and the positioning reference signal occasion is only
configured within MBSFN subframes and the cyclic prefix length used in
subframe \#0 is normal cyclic prefix,

the UE shall upon detection of a PDCCH with CRC scrambled by the SPS
C-RNTI with DCI format 1A/2C/2D/7-1F/7-1G except when the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and with
DCI format 1A/2C/2D mapped onto the UE-specific search space, or upon
detection of a EPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the SPS C-RNTI with DCI
format 1A/2C/2D, or upon detection of a SPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the
SPS C-RNTI with DCI format 7-1F/7-1G, or for a configured PDSCH without
PDCCH intended for the UE, decode the corresponding PDSCH in the same
subframe/slot/subslot.

A UE configured in transmission mode 10 can be configured with
scrambling identities, ![](media/image68.wmf), ![](media/image69.wmf) by
higher layers for UE-specific reference signal generation as defined in
Clause 6.10.3.1 of \[3\] to decode PDSCH according to a detected

\- PDCCH/EPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the SPS C-RNTI with DCI format 2D

\- PDCCH/SPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the SPS C-RNTI with DCI format
7-1G

intended for the UE.

For PDSCH without a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH, the UE shall use the
value of![](media/image70.wmf) and the scrambling identity of
![](media/image71.wmf) (as defined in Clause 6.10.3.1 of \[3\]) derived
from the DCI format 2D/7-1G corresponding to the associated SPS
activation for UE-specific reference signal generation.

Table 7.1-6: PDCCH and PDSCH configured by SPS C-RNTI

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Transmission   | DCI format     | Search Space   | Transmission   |
| mode           |                |                | scheme of      |
|                |                |                | PDSCH          |
|                |                |                | corresponding  |
|                |                |                | to PDCCH       |
+================+================+================+================+
| **Mode 1**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 0   |
|                |                | UE specific by | (see Clause    |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1   | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                | and 7-1A       | C-RNTI         | port, port 0   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 2**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1   | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | and 7-1A       | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 3**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2A  | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | and 7-1B       | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 4**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2   | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | and 7-1C       | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 5**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 6**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity (see |
|                |                | UE specific by | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                | C-RNTI         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1D           | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 7**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and     | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 5   |
|                |                | UE specific by | (see Clause    |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 1   | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | port, port 5   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 8**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and\    | Single-antenna |
|                |                | UE specific by | port, port     |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | 7(see Clause   |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2B  | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                | and 7-1E       | C-RNTI         | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 9**     | DCI format 1A  | Common and\    | Single-antenna |
|                |                | UE specific by | port, port 7   |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2C  | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *              |
|                |                |                | semiOpenLoop,* |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7,  |
|                |                |                | 8, 11, or 13   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *d             |
|                |                |                | mrs-tableAlt*, |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8, (see     |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | otherwise      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1F           | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *semi          |
|                |                |                | OpenLoopSTTI,* |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | or single      |
|                |                |                | antenna port,  |
|                |                |                | port 7 or 8,   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | slotSubs       |
|                |                |                | lotPDSCH-TXDiv |
|                |                |                | -2layer-TM9/10 |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | su             |
|                |                |                | bSlotslotPDSCH |
|                |                |                | TS 36.331      |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8, (see     |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | otherwise.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 10**    | DCI format 1A  | Common and\    | Single-antenna |
|                |                | UE specific by | port, port 7   |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format 2D  | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                |                | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *              |
|                |                |                | semiOpenLoop,* |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7,  |
|                |                |                | 8, 11, or 13   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *d             |
|                |                |                | mrs-tableAlt*, |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8, (see     |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | otherwise      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1G           | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *              |
|                |                |                | semiOpenLoop,* |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7,8 (see  |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | or single      |
|                |                |                | antenna port,  |
|                |                |                | port 7 or 8,   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | slotSubs       |
|                |                |                | lotPDSCH-TXDiv |
|                |                |                | -2layer-TM9/10 |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | slotSubs       |
|                |                |                | lotPDSCH-TXDiv |
|                |                |                | -4layer-TM9/10 |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331\[11\]). |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8, (see     |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | otherwise.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 7.1-6A: EPDCCH and PDSCH configured by SPS C-RNTI

  Transmission mode   DCI format      Search Space            Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to EPDCCH
  ------------------- --------------- ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Mode 1**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 0 (see Clause 7.1.1)
                      DCI format 1    UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 0 (see Clause 7.1.1)
  **Mode 2**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
                      DCI format 1    UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  **Mode 3**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
                      DCI format 2A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  **Mode 4**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
                      DCI format 2    UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  **Mode 5**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  **Mode 6**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  **Mode 7**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 5 (see Clause 7.1.1)
                      DCI format 1    UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 5 (see Clause 7.1.1)
  **Mode 8**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 7(see Clause 7.1.1)
                      DCI format 2B   UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 7 or 8 (see Clause 7.1.1)
  **Mode 9**          DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 7 (see Clause 7.1.1)
                      DCI format 2C   UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity, port 7-8, (see Clause 7.1.2) if UE is configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop,* or single-antenna port, port 7, 8, 11, or 13 (see Clause 7.1.1) if UE is configured with higher layer parameter *dmrs-tableAlt*, Single-antenna port, port 7 or 8, (see Clause 7.1.1) otherwise
  **Mode 10**         DCI format 1A   UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 7 (see Clause 7.1.1)
                      DCI format 2D   UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity, port 7-8, (see Clause 7.1.2) if UE is configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop,* or single-antenna port, port 7, 8, 11, or 13 (see Clause 7.1.1) if UE is configured with higher layer parameter *dmrs-tableAlt*, Single-antenna port, port 7 or 8, (see Clause 7.1.1) otherwise

Table 7.1-6B: MPDCCH and PDSCH configured by SPS C-RNTI

  Transmission mode   DCI format   Search Space            Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to MPDCCH
  ------------------- ------------ ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------
  **Mode 1**          6-1A         UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 0 (see Clause 7.1.1)
  **Mode 2**          6-1A         UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  **Mode 6**          6-1A         UE specific by C-RNTI   Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  **Mode 9**          6-1A         UE specific by C-RNTI   Single-antenna port, port 7 or 8 (see Clause 7.1.1)

NOTE: For BL/CE UEs configured with transmission mode 6, and for DCI
6-1A mapped onto the UE specific search space and with CRC scrambled by
the SPS C-RNTI, the bits corresponding to TPMI information for precoding
and PMI information for precoding are set to zero.

Table 7.1-6C: SPDCCH and PDSCH configured by SPS C-RNTI

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Transmission   | DCI format     | Search Space   | Transmission   |
| mode           |                |                | scheme of      |
|                |                |                | PDSCH          |
|                |                |                | corresponding  |
|                |                |                | to SPDCCH      |
+================+================+================+================+
| **Mode 1**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                | 7-1A           | C-RNTI         | port, port 0   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 2**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1A           | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 3**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1B           | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 4**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1C           | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 6**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1D           | C-RNTI         | diversity (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 8**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Single-antenna |
|                | 7-1E           | C-RNTI         | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8 (see      |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 9**     | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1F           | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *semi          |
|                |                |                | OpenLoopSTTI.* |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | or single      |
|                |                |                | antenna port,  |
|                |                |                | port 7 or 8,   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 2layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 4layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8, (see     |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | otherwise.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Mode 10**    | DCI format     | UE specific by | Transmit       |
|                | 7-1G           | C-RNTI         | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | if UE is       |
|                |                |                | configured     |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *semi          |
|                |                |                | OpenLoopSTTI.* |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Transmit       |
|                |                |                | diversity,     |
|                |                |                | port 7-8, (see |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.2)  |
|                |                |                | or single      |
|                |                |                | antenna port,  |
|                |                |                | port 7 or 8,   |
|                |                |                | (see Clause    |
|                |                |                | 7.1.1) if UE   |
|                |                |                | is configured  |
|                |                |                | with higher    |
|                |                |                | layer          |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 2layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | or             |
|                |                |                | *slotSubsl     |
|                |                |                | otPDSCH-TXDiv- |
|                |                |                | 4layer-TM9/10* |
|                |                |                | (3GPP TS       |
|                |                |                | 36.331         |
|                |                |                | \[11\]).       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Single-antenna |
|                |                |                | port, port 7   |
|                |                |                | or 8, (see     |
|                |                |                | Clause 7.1.1)  |
|                |                |                | otherwise.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the Temporary C-RNTI and is not configured to decode PDCCH
with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI, the UE shall decode the PDCCH and the
corresponding PDSCH according to the combination defined in Table 7.1-7.
The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to these PDCCHs is
by Temporary C-RNTI.

If a UE is configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the Temporary C-RNTI and is not configured to decode MPDCCH
with CRC scrambled by the C-RNTI during random access procedure, the UE
shall decode the MPDCCH and the corresponding PDSCH according to the
combination defined in Table 7.1-8. The scrambling initialization of
PDSCH corresponding to these MPDCCHs is by Temporary C-RNTI.

If a UE is also configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the C-RNTI during random access procedure, the UE shall
decode the MPDCCH and the corresponding PDSCH according to the
combination defined in Table 7.1-8. The scrambling initialization of
PDSCH corresponding to these MPDCCHs is by C-RNTI.

Table 7.1-7: PDCCH and PDSCH configured by Temporary C-RNTI

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DCI format      Search Space          Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to PDCCH
  --------------- --------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DCI format 1A   Common and\           If the number of PBCH antenna port is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
                  UE specific\          
                  by Temporary C-RNTI   

  DCI format 1    UE specific\          If the number of PBCH antenna port is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
                  by Temporary C-RNTI   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.1-8: MPDCCH and PDSCH configured by Temporary C-RNTI and/or
C-RNTI during random access procedure

  DCI format        Search Space   Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to MPDCCH
  ----------------- -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DCI format 6-1A   Type2-Common   If the number of PBCH antenna port is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)
  DCI format 6-1B   Type2-Common   If the number of PBCH antenna port is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2)

If a BL/CE UE is configured by higher layers to decode MPDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the PUR-RNTI, the UE shall decode the MPDCCH and any
corresponding PDSCH according to the respective combinations defined in
Table 7.1-9. The scrambling initialization of PDSCH corresponding to
these MPDCCHs is by PUR-RNTI.

Table 7.1-9: MPDCCH and PDSCH configured by PUR-RNTI

  DCI format     Search Space              Transmission scheme of PDSCH corresponding to MPDCCH
  -------------- ------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  6-1A or 6-1B   UE specific by PUR-RNTI   If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one, Single-antenna port, port 0 is used (see Clause 7.1.1), otherwise Transmit diversity (see Clause 7.1.2).

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *must-Config-r14*,
and if the PDCCH/EPDCCH DCI of the corresponding PDSCH transmission
indicates MUST interference is present \[4\],

\- the UE may assume that the starting OFDM symbol of MUST interference
is same as the starting OFDM symbol of the corresponding PDSCH
transmission,

\- for transmission modes 8-10, the UE may assume
![](media/image72.wmf), ![](media/image73.wmf) of MUST interference are
same as that of the corresponding PDSCH transmission.

A UE is not required to receive PDSCH assigned by MPDCCH with DCI CRC
scrambled by SC-RNTI or G-RNTI if the set of subframes carrying the
PDSCH includes any subframes in which the UE monitors Type1-MPDCCH
common search space or PDSCH assigned by MPDCCH sent in Type1-MPDCCH
common search space.

A UE is not required to receive PDSCH assigned by MPDCCH with DCI CRC
scrambled by G-RNTI if the set of subframes carrying the PDSCH includes
any subframes in which the UE monitors Type1A-MPDCCH common search
space, or includes any subframes in which the UE receives PDSCH assigned
by MPDCCH with DCI CRC scrambled by SC-RNTI.

The transmission schemes of the PDSCH are described in the following
clauses.

### 7.1.1 Single-antenna port scheme

For the single-antenna port transmission schemes (port 0/5/7/8/11/13) of
the PDSCH, the UE may assume that an eNB transmission on the PDSCH would
be performed according to Clause 6.3.4.1 of \[3\].

If the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter *dmrs-tableAlt*
and in case an antenna port ![](media/image74.wmf) is used, or if the
higher layer parameter *dmrs-tableAlt* is set to 1 and in case an
antenna port ![](media/image75.wmf){width="0.5520833333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} corresponding to one codeword values 0-3
in Table 5.3.3.1.5C-2 \[4\] is used, the UE cannot assume that the other
antenna port in the set ![](media/image76.wmf) is not associated with
transmission of PDSCH to another UE.

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *dmrs-tableAlt*, and
in case of single layer transmission scheme on antenna port
![](media/image77.wmf) corresponding to one codeword values 4-11 in
Table 5.3.3.1.5C-2 \[4\] is used, the UE cannot assume that the other
antenna ports in the set ![](media/image78.wmf) is not associated with
transmission of PDSCH to another UE.

### 7.1.2 Transmit diversity scheme

For the transmit diversity transmission scheme of the PDSCH, the UE may
assume that an eNB transmission on the PDSCH would be performed
according to Clause 6.3.4.3 of \[3\]

### 7.1.3 Large delay CDD scheme

For the large delay CDD transmission scheme of the PDSCH, the UE may
assume that an eNB transmission on the PDSCH would be performed
according to large delay CDD as defined in Clause 6.3.4.2.2 of \[3\].

### 7.1.4 Closed-loop spatial multiplexing scheme

For the closed-loop spatial multiplexing transmission scheme of the
PDSCH, the UE may assume that an eNB transmission on the PDSCH would be
performed according to the applicable number of transmission layers as
defined in Clause 6.3.4.2.1 of \[3\].

### 7.1.5 Multi-user MIMO scheme

For the multi-user MIMO transmission scheme of the PDSCH, the UE may
assume that an eNB transmission on the PDSCH would be performed on one
layer and according to Clause 6.3.4.2.1 of \[3\]. The
![](media/image79.wmf)dB value signalled on PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
1D using the downlink power offset field is given in Table 7.1.5-1.

Table 7.1.5-1: Mapping of downlink power offset field in DCI format 1D
to the ![](media/image79.wmf)value.

  Downlink power offset field   ![](media/image79.wmf)\[dB\]
  ----------------------------- ------------------------------
  0                             -10log~10~(2)
  1                             0

### 7.1.5A Dual layer scheme 

For the dual layer transmission scheme of the PDSCH, the UE may assume
that an eNB transmission on the PDSCH would be performed with two
transmission layers on antenna ports 7 and 8 as defined in Clause
6.3.4.4 of \[3\].

### 7.1.5B Up to 8 layer transmission scheme

For the up to 8 layer transmission scheme of the PDSCH, the UE may
assume that an eNB transmission on the PDSCH would be performed with up
to 8 transmission layers on antenna ports 7 - 14 as defined in Clause
6.3.4.4 of \[3\].

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *dmrs-tableAlt*, and
in case of dual layer transmission scheme on antenna
ports![](media/image80.wmf)or![](media/image81.wmf) corresponding to two
codewords values 2-5 in Table 5.3.3.1.5C-2 \[4\] is used, the UE cannot
assume that the other antenna ports in the set ![](media/image78.wmf) is
not associated with transmission of PDSCH to another UE.

### 7.1.6 Resource allocation

The UE shall interpret the resource allocation field depending on the
PDCCH/EPDCCH DCI format detected. A resource allocation field in each
PDCCH/EPDCCH includes two parts, a resource allocation header field and
information consisting of the actual resource block assignment.

PDCCH DCI formats 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D with type 0 and PDCCH DCI
formats 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D with type 1 resource allocation have the
same format and are distinguished from each other via the single bit
resource allocation header field which exists depending on the downlink
system bandwidth (Clause 5.3.3.1 of \[4\]), where type 0 is indicated by
0 value and type 1 is indicated otherwise. PDCCH with DCI format 1A, 1B,
1C and 1D have a type 2 resource allocation while PDCCH with DCI format
1, 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D have type 0 or type 1 resource allocation. PDCCH
DCI formats with a type 2 resource allocation do not have a resource
allocation header field.

EPDCCH DCI formats 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D with type 0 and EPDCCH DCI
formats 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D with type 1 resource allocation have the
same format and are distinguished from each other via the single bit
resource allocation header field which exists depending on the downlink
system bandwidth (Clause 5.3.3.1 of \[4\]), where type 0 is indicated by
0 value and type 1 is indicated otherwise. EPDCCH with DCI format 1A,
1B, and 1D have a type 2 resource allocation while EPDCCH with DCI
format 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D have type 0 or type 1 resource
allocation. EPDCCH DCI formats with a type 2 resource allocation do not
have a resource allocation header field.

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI*,
PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G utilizes
a higher layer configured resource allocation type 0 or resource
allocation type 2.

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value 20MHz and the resource block
assignment flag is set to 0

\- MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A utilizes a type 0 resource allocation.

else if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value 20MHz and the resource block
assignment flag is set to 1, or the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value 5 MHz, or
*mpdcch-PDSCH-MaxBandwidth-SC-MTCH* is set to 24 PRBs,

For system bandwidth larger than 1.4 MHz,

MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A utilizes same type 2 resource allocation
within each allocated narrowband.

otherwise,

MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A utilizes a type 2 resource allocation.

otherwise

\- MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A utilizes a type 2 resource allocation.

Resource allocation for MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1B is given by the
Resource block assignment field as described in \[4\]. For a UE
configured with higher layer parameter *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config*
with value 20MHz and CEModeB, the allocated widebands (WBs) are based on
the wideband combination index according to Table 7.1.6-2.

MPDCCH with DCI format 6-2 assigns a set of six contiguously allocated
localized virtual resource blocks within a narrowband. Localized virtual
resource blocks are always used in case of MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A,
6-1B, or 6-2.

A UE may assume, for any PDSCH transmission scheduled by a cell with
physical cell identity given in *NAICS-AssistanceInfo-r12* and the PDSCH
transmission mode belonging to *transmissionModeList-r12* associated
with the cell except spatial multiplexing using up to 8 transmission
layers in transmission mode 10, that the resource allocation granularity
and precoding granularity in terms of PRB pairs in the frequency domain
are both given by *N*, where *N* is given by the higher layer parameter
*resAllocGranularity-r12* associated with the cell. The first set of *N*
consecutive PRB pairs of the resource allocation starts from the lowest
frequency of the system bandwidth and the UE may assume the same
precoding applies to all PRB pairs within a set.

For a BL/CE UE, the resource allocation for PDSCH carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* and SI messages is a set of six
contiguously allocated localized virtual resource blocks within a
narrowband. The number of repetitions for the PDSCH carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* is determined based on the parameter
*schedulingInfoSIB1-BR* configured by higher-layers and according to
Table 7.1.6-1. If the value of the parameter *schedulingInfoSIB1-BR*
configured by higher-layers is set to 0, UE assumes that
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* is not transmitted.

Table 7.1.6-1: Number of repetitions for PDSCH carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* for BL/CE UE.

  Value of *schedulingInfoSIB1-BR*   Number of PDSCH repetitions
  ---------------------------------- -----------------------------
  ***0***                            *N/A*
  ***1***                            *4*
  ***2***                            *8*
  ***3***                            *16*
  ***4***                            *4*
  ***5***                            *8*
  ***6***                            *16*
  ***7***                            *4*
  ***8***                            *8*
  ***9***                            *16*
  ***10***                           *4*
  ***11***                           *8*
  ***12***                           *16*
  ***13***                           *4*
  ***14***                           *8*
  ***15***                           *16*
  ***16***                           *4*
  ***17***                           *8*
  ***18***                           *16*
  ***19-31***                        *Reserved*

Table 7.1.6-2: Wideband combination index for a UE configured with
higher layer parameter *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value 20MHz
and CEModeB

  Wideband combination index   Indices of allocated WBs                            
  ---------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------------ ------------------------
                               ![](media/image82.wmf)     ![](media/image83.wmf)   ![](media/image84.wmf)
  ***0***                      *0*                        *0*                      *0*
  ***1***                      1                          1                        1
  ***2***                      0,1                        2                        2
  ***3***                      Reserved                   0,1                      3
  ***4***                      NA                         1,2                      0,1
  ***5***                      NA                         0,2                      2,3
  ***6***                      NA                         0,1,2                    0,1,2
  ***7***                      NA                         Reserved                 0,1,2,3

#### 7.1.6.1 Resource allocation type 0

In resource allocations of type 0, resource block assignment information
includes a bitmap indicating the Resource Block Groups (RBGs) that are
allocated to the scheduled UE where a RBG is a set of consecutive
virtual resource blocks (VRBs) of localized type as defined in Clause
6.2.3.1 of \[3\].

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value 20MHz and the resource block
assignment flag is set to 0

\- Resource block group size (*P*) is given by the value S described in
sub clause 5.3.3.1.12 of \[4\].

\- ![](media/image85.wmf) and ![](media/image86.wmf) is used in place of
![](media/image87.wmf) for the rest of this clause, unless explicitly
mentioned.

otherwise

\- Resource block group size (*P*) is a function of the system bandwidth
as shown in Table 7.1.6.1-1A if a UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *shortTTI* and for DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, Table 7.1.6.1-1 otherwise.

For DCI formats other than DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, the total number of RBGs
(![](media/image88.wmf)) for downlink system bandwidth
of![](media/image89.wmf) is given by ![](media/image90.wmf)where
![](media/image91.wmf)of the RBGs are of size P and if
![](media/image92.wmf) then one of the RBGs is of
size![](media/image93.wmf). If a UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *shortTTI* and for DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, the total number of RBGs
(![](media/image88.wmf)) for downlink system bandwidth
of![](media/image89.wmf) is given by ![](media/image94.wmf)where
![](media/image95.wmf) of the RBGs are of size P and if
![](media/image92.wmf) then the last RBGs is of size
![](media/image96.wmf). The bitmap is of size ![](media/image97.wmf)bits
with one bitmap bit per RBG such that each RBG is addressable.

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value 20MHz and the resource block
assignment flag is set to 0

\- The RBGs shall be indexed according to RBG indexing described in
Clause 8.1.5.1 by replacing ![](media/image98.wmf)with
![](media/image88.wmf), \'uplink\' with \'downlink\' , and
![](media/image99.wmf) with ![](media/image87.wmf) (but not ).

otherwise

\- For DCI formats other than DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, the RBGs shall be indexed in the
order of increasing frequency and non-increasing RBG sizes starting at
the lowest frequency.

\- For DCI formats 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, the RBGs shall be
indexed in the order of increasing frequency and non-decreasing RBG
sizes starting at the lowest frequency.

The order of RBG to bitmap bit mapping is such that RBG 0 to
RBG![](media/image100.wmf) are mapped to MSB to LSB of the bitmap. The
RBG is allocated to the UE if the corresponding bit value in the bitmap
is 1, the RBG is not allocated to the UE otherwise.

Table 7.1.6.1-1: Type 0 resource allocation RBG size vs. Downlink System
Bandwidth

  System Bandwidth          RBG Size
  ------------------------- ----------
  ![](media/image101.wmf)   (*P*)
  ≤10                       1
  11 -- 26                  2
  27 -- 63                  3
  64 -- 110                 4

Table 7.1.6.1-1A: Type 0 resource allocation RBG size vs. Downlink
System Bandwidth for DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G

  System Bandwidth          RBG Size
  ------------------------- ----------
  ![](media/image101.wmf)   (*P*)
  ≤10                       1
  11 -- 24                  2
  25 -- 63                  6
  64 -- 110                 12

#### 7.1.6.2 Resource allocation type 1

In resource allocations of type 1, a resource block assignment
information of size ![](media/image88.wmf) indicates to a scheduled UE
the VRBs from the set of VRBs from one of *P* RBG subsets. The virtual
resource blocks used are of localized type as defined in Clause 6.2.3.1
of \[3\]. Also *P* is the RBG size associated with the system bandwidth
as shown in Table 7.1.6.1-1. A RBG subset ![](media/image102.wmf), where
![](media/image103.wmf), consists of every ![](media/image104.wmf)th RBG
starting from RBG ![](media/image102.wmf). The resource block assignment
information consists of three fields \[4\].

The first field with ![](media/image105.wmf)bits is used to indicate the
selected RBG subset among ![](media/image104.wmf) RBG subsets.

The second field with one bit is used to indicate a shift of the
resource allocation span within a subset. A bit value of 1 indicates
shift is triggered. Shift is not triggered otherwise.

The third field includes a bitmap, where each bit of the bitmap
addresses a single VRB in the selected RBG subset in such a way that MSB
to LSB of the bitmap are mapped to the VRBs in the increasing frequency
order. The VRB is allocated to the UE if the corresponding bit value in
the bit field is 1, the VRB is not allocated to the UE otherwise. The
portion of the bitmap used to address VRBs in a selected RBG subset has
size ![](media/image106.wmf) and is defined as

![](media/image107.wmf)

The addressable VRB numbers of a selected RBG subset start from an
offset, ![](media/image108.wmf) to the smallest VRB number within the
selected RBG subset, which is mapped to the MSB of the bitmap. The
offset is in terms of the number of VRBs and is done within the selected
RBG subset. If the value of the bit in the second field for shift of the
resource allocation span is set to 0, the offset for RBG subset
![](media/image102.wmf) is given by ![](media/image109.wmf). Otherwise,
the offset for RBG subset ![](media/image102.wmf) is given by
![](media/image110.wmf), where the LSB of the bitmap is justified with
the highest VRB number within the selected RBG subset.
![](media/image111.wmf)is the number of VRBs in RBG subset
![](media/image102.wmf)and can be calculated by the following equation,

![](media/image112.wmf)

Consequently, when RBG subset ![](media/image113.wmf) is indicated, bit
![](media/image114.wmf) for ![](media/image115.wmf) in the bitmap field
indicates VRB number,

![](media/image116.wmf).

#### 7.1.6.3 Resource allocation type 2

For BL/CE UEs with resource allocation type 2 resource assignment,
![](media/image117.wmf) and ![](media/image118.wmf) is used in the rest
of this Clause.

In resource allocations of type 2, the resource block assignment
information indicates to a scheduled UE a set of contiguously allocated
localized virtual resource blocks or distributed virtual resource
blocks. In case of resource allocation signalled with PDCCH DCI format
1A, 1B or 1D, or for resource allocation signalled with EPDCCH DCI
format 1A, 1B, or 1D, one bit flag indicates whether localized virtual
resource blocks or distributed virtual resource blocks are assigned
(value 0 indicates Localized and value 1 indicates Distributed VRB
assignment) while distributed virtual resource blocks are always
assigned in case of resource allocation signalled with PDCCH DCI format
1C and localized virtual resource blocks are always assigned in case of
resource allocation signalled with PDCCH/SPDCCH DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G. Localized VRB allocations for a UE
vary from a single VRB up to a maximum number of VRBs spanning the
system bandwidth. For DCI format 1A the distributed VRB allocations for
a UE vary from a single VRB up to ![](media/image119.wmf) VRBs, where
![](media/image120.wmf) is defined in \[3\], if the DCI CRC is scrambled
by P-RNTI, RA-RNTI, or SI-RNTI. With PDCCH DCI format 1B, 1D with a CRC
scrambled by C-RNTI, or with DCI format 1A with a CRC scrambled with
C-RNTI, SPS C-RNTI or Temporary C-RNTI distributed VRB allocations for a
UE vary from a single VRB up to ![](media/image119.wmf) VRBs if
![](media/image121.wmf) is 6-49 and vary from a single VRB up to 16 if
![](media/image121.wmf) is 50-110. With EPDCCH DCI format 1B, 1D with a
CRC scrambled by C-RNTI, or with DCI format 1A with a CRC scrambled with
C-RNTI, SPS C-RNTI distributed VRB allocations for a UE vary from a
single VRB up to ![](media/image119.wmf) VRBs if ![](media/image121.wmf)
is 6-49 and vary from a single VRB up to 16 if ![](media/image121.wmf)
is 50-110. With PDCCH DCI format 1C and
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, VRB allocations for a UE vary from
![](media/image122.wmf) VRB(s) up to ![](media/image123.wmf) VRBs with
an increment step of ![](media/image122.wmf), where
![](media/image122.wmf) value is determined depending on the downlink
system bandwidth as shown in Table 7.1.6.3-1 for DCI format 1C and Table
7.1.6.3-1A for DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G.

Table 7.1.6.3-1: ![](media/image122.wmf) values vs. Downlink System
Bandwidth

  System BW (![](media/image124.wmf))   ![](media/image122.wmf)
  ------------------------------------- -------------------------
                                        DCI format 1C
  6-49                                  2
  50-110                                4

Table 7.1.6.3-1A: ![](media/image125.wmf) values vs. Downlink System
Bandwidth

  System BW (![](media/image124.wmf))   ![](media/image126.wmf)
  ------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------
                                        DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G
  20 -- 26                              4
  27 -- 63                              6
  64 -- 110                             4

For PDCCH DCI format 1A, 1B, or 1D or for PDCCH DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G and ![](media/image127.wmf)\<20, or
for EPDCCH DCI format 1A, 1B, or 1D, or for MPDCCH DCI format 6-1A, or
for SPDCCH DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G and
![](media/image121.wmf)\<20, a type 2 resource allocation field consists
of a resource indication value (*RIV*) corresponding to a starting
resource block (![](media/image128.wmf)) and a length in terms of
virtually contiguously allocated resource blocks
![](media/image129.wmf).

The resource indication value is defined by

if ![](media/image130.wmf) then

> ![](media/image131.wmf)

else

> ![](media/image132.wmf)

where![](media/image133.wmf)≥ 1 and shall not exceed
![](media/image134.wmf).

For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, and configured with higher layer
parameter *ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig-r15*, and , the and is
determined according to Table 7.1.6.3-2 where,

\- is the smallest and the largest physical resource-block number,
respectively, of the allocated narrowband as defined in Clause 6.2.7 of
\[3\]

\- is the value of the downlink system bandwidth

*- P* is the RBG size associated with the downlink system bandwidth,,
according to Table 7.1.6.1-1

\-

\- Physical resource-blocks with indices or , correspond to physical
resource-blocks outside the allocated narrowband relative to physical
resource-block

*-* $L_{\text{CRBs}}$ shall not exceed ()

Table 7.1.6.3-2: and for and CEModeA

  --- -- ---
         
  0      2
  1      3
  2      4
  3      5
  4      6
  5      6
  6      5
  7      4
  8      3
  9      2
  --- -- ---

For PDCCH DCI format 1C or for PDCCH/SPDCCH DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G and ![](media/image151.wmf), a type 2
resource block assignment field consists of a resource indication value
(*RIV*) corresponding to a virtual starting resource block
(![](media/image128.wmf)=![](media/image152.wmf),
![](media/image122.wmf), ![](media/image153.wmf),...,
![](media/image154.wmf)) and a length in terms of virtually contiguously
allocated resource blocks
(![](media/image155.wmf)=![](media/image122.wmf),
![](media/image156.wmf),..., ![](media/image157.wmf)).

The resource indication value is defined by:

if ![](media/image158.wmf) then

> ![](media/image159.wmf)

else

> ![](media/image160.wmf)

where ![](media/image161.wmf), ![](media/image162.wmf) and
![](media/image163.wmf), and where

![](media/image164.wmf)≥ 1 and shall not exceed ![](media/image165.wmf).

For PDCCH DCI format 1C or for PDCCH/SPDCCH DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G and ![](media/image166.wmf), the
starting resource block index is the same as the virtual starting
resource block index (![](media/image167.wmf)). For PDCCH/SPDCCH DCI
format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G and ![](media/image168.wmf),
the LSB of RIV indicates whether the starting resource block index is
![](media/image169.wmf) or ![](media/image170.wmf)(value 0 indicates
![](media/image169.wmf) and value 1 indicates ![](media/image170.wmf)).
In case of resource allocation signalled with

\- PDCCH/SPDCCH DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D, and
![](media/image168.wmf), if the resource allocation indicates the
corresponding PDSCH is mapped to RB index 23, the UE shall assume the
PDSCH is also mapped to RB index 24.

\- PDCCH/SPDCCH DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, and
![](media/image171.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in" height="0.25in"},
if the resource allocation indicates the corresponding PDSCH is mapped
to RB index 47, the UE shall assume the PDSCH is also mapped to RB index
48 and 49.

\- PDCCH/SPDCCH DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D, and
![](media/image172.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, if the resource allocation indicates
the corresponding PDSCH is mapped to RB index 71, the UE shall assume
the PDSCH is also mapped to RB index 72, 73 and 74.

\- PDCCH/SPDCCH DCI format 7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, and
![](media/image172.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, if the resource allocation indicates
the corresponding PDSCH is mapped to RB index 71, the UE shall assume
the PDSCH is also mapped to RB index 72, and 73.

#### 7.1.6.4 PDSCH starting position

This Clause describes PDSCH starting position for UEs that are not BL/CE
UEs.

PDSCH starting position for BL/CE UEs is described in Clause 7.1.6.4A.

The starting OFDM symbol for the PDSCH of each activated serving cell is
given by index ![](media/image173.wmf) .

For a UE configured in transmission mode 1-9, for a given activated
serving cell

\- if the PDSCH is assigned by EPDCCH received in the same serving cell,
or if the UE is configured to monitor EPDCCH in the subframe and the
PDSCH is not assigned by a PDCCH/EPDCCH, and if the UE is configured
with the higher layer parameter *epdcch-StartSymbol-r11*

\- ![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the higher-layer parameter
*epdcch-StartSymbol-r11*.

\- else if PDSCH and the corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH are received on
different serving cells

\- ![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the higher-layer parameter
*pdsch-Start-r10* for the serving cell on which PDSCH is received,

\- Otherwise

\- ![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the CFI value in the subframe of
the given serving cell when ![](media/image174.wmf), and
![](media/image175.wmf) is given by the CFI value + 1 in the subframe of
the given serving cell when ![](media/image176.wmf).

For a UE configured in transmission mode 10, for a given activated
serving cell

\- if the PDSCH is assigned by a PDCCH with DCI format 1C or by a PDCCH
with DCI format 1A and with CRC scrambled with
P-RNTI/RA-RNTI/SI-RNTI/Temporary C-RNTI

\- ![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the span of the DCI given by the
CFI value in the subframe of the given serving cell according to Clause
5.3.4 of \[4\].

\- if the PDSCH is assigned by a PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1A and
with CRC scrambled with C-RNTI and if the PDSCH transmission is on
antenna ports 0 - 3

\- if the PDSCH is assigned by EPDCCH received in the same serving cell

\- ![](media/image173.wmf) is given by ![](media/image177.wmf) for the
EPDCCH-PRB-set where EPDCCH with the DCI format 1A was received
(![](media/image177.wmf) as defined in Clause 9.1.4.1),

\- else if PDSCH and the corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH are received on
different serving cells

\- ![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the higher-layer parameter
*pdsch-Start-r10* for the serving cell on which PDSCH is received.

\- otherwise

\- ![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the CFI value in the subframe of
the given serving cell when ![](media/image174.wmf), and
![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the CFI value+1 in the subframe of
the given serving cell when ![](media/image176.wmf).

\- if the PDSCH is assigned by or semi-statically scheduled by a
PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1A and if the PDSCH transmission is on
antenna port 7

\- if the value of the higher layer parameter *pdsch-Start-r11*
determined from parameter set 1 in table 7.1.9-1 for the serving cell on
which PDSCH is received belongs to {1,2,3,4},

\- ![](media/image178.wmf)is given by the higher layer parameter
*pdsch-Start-r11* determined from parameter set 1 in table 7.1.9-1 for
the serving cell on which PDSCH is received.

\- else,

\- if PDSCH and the corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH are received on different
serving cells,

\- ![](media/image179.wmf) is given by the higher-layer parameter
*pdsch-Start-r10* for the serving cell on which PDSCH is received

\- otherwise

\- ![](media/image179.wmf) is given by the CFI value in the subframe of
the given serving cell when ![](media/image174.wmf), and
![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the CFI value + 1 in the subframe of
the given serving cell when ![](media/image176.wmf).

\- if the subframe on which PDSCH is received is indicated by the higher
layer parameter *mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-r11* determined from parameter
set 1 in table 7.1.9-1 for the serving cell on which PDSCH is received,
or if the PDSCH is received on subframe 1 or 6 for the frame structure
type 2,

\- ![](media/image180.wmf),

\- otherwise

\- ![](media/image181.wmf).

\- if the PDSCH is assigned by or semi-persistently scheduled by a
PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 2D,

\- if the value of the higher layer parameter *pdsch-Start-r11*
determined from the DCI (according to Clause 7.1.9) for the serving cell
on which PDSCH is received belongs to {1,2,3,4},

\- ![](media/image179.wmf) is given by parameter *pdsch-Start-r11*
determined from the DCI (according to Clause 7.1.9) for the serving cell
on which PDSCH is received except if UE is configured with Type C quasi
co-location and when two codewords are transmitted then
![](media/image179.wmf) is given by the maximum of the
*pdsch-Start-r11and pdsch-Start2-r15* parameters,

\- else,

\- if PDSCH and the corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH are received on different
serving cells,

\- ![](media/image179.wmf) is given by the higher-layer parameter
*pdsch-Start-r10* for the serving cell on which PDSCH is received

\- Otherwise

\- ![](media/image179.wmf) is given by the CFI value in the subframe of
the given serving cell when ![](media/image174.wmf), and
![](media/image173.wmf) is given by the CFI value+1 in the subframe of
the given serving cell when ![](media/image176.wmf).

\- if the subframe on which PDSCH is received is indicated by the higher
layer parameter *mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-r11* determined from the DCI
(according to Clause 7.1.9) for the serving cell on which PDSCH is
received, or if the PDSCH is received on subframe 1 or 6 for frame
structure type 2,

\- ![](media/image180.wmf),

\- otherwise

\- ![](media/image181.wmf).

#### 7.1.6.4A PDSCH starting position for BL/CE UEs

The starting OFDM symbol for PDSCH is given by index
![](media/image182.wmf) in the first slot in a subframe
![](media/image183.wmf) and is determined as follows

\- for reception of SIB1-BR

\- ![](media/image184.wmf)if ![](media/image174.wmf)for the cell on
which PDSCH is received

\- ![](media/image185.wmf)if ![](media/image176.wmf)for the cell on
which PDSCH is received

\- else

\- ![](media/image186.wmf)is given by the higher layer parameter
*startSymbolBR*

\- if subframe ![](media/image187.wmf) is a special subframe or
configured as an MBSFN subframe, and if the BL/CE UE is configured in
CEModeA

\- ![](media/image188.wmf)

\- else

\- ![](media/image189.wmf).

#### 7.1.6.5 Physical Resource Block (PRB) bundling

A UE configured for transmission mode 9 for a given serving cell *c* may
assume that precoding granularity is multiple resource blocks in the
frequency domain when PMI/RI reporting is configured.

For a given serving cell c, if a UE is configured for transmission mode
10

\- if PMI/RI reporting is configured for all configured CSI processes
for the serving cell *c*, the UE may assume that precoding granularity
is multiple resource blocks in the frequency domain,

\- otherwise, the UE shall assume the precoding granularity is one
resource block in the frequency domain.

If the UE is non-BL/CE UE,

\- if the UE is configured for transmission mode 9, 10 with PMI/RI
reporting and with higher layer parameter *widebandPRG-Subframe* and the
scheduled PRBs are consecutive PRBs, the UE may assume that the same
precoder applies on all the scheduled PRBs,

\- otherwise, fixed system bandwidth dependent Precoding Resource block
Groups (PRGs) of size ![](media/image190.wmf) partition the system
bandwidth and each PRG consists of consecutive PRBs. The PRG size a UE
may assume for a given system bandwidth is given by Table 7.1.6.5-1. If
![](media/image191.wmf) then one of the PRGs is of size
![](media/image192.wmf). The PRG size is non-increasing starting at the
lowest frequency. The UE may assume that the same precoder applies on
all scheduled PRBs within a PRG.

If the UE is a BL/CE UE not configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig-r15*, PRGs of size =3 partition a
narrowband with RB indices 0-2 in the narrowband in one PRG and RB
indices 3-5 in the narrowband in another PRG.

If the UE is a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA and configured with
higher layer parameter *ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig-r15*,

\- if
$0 \leq RIV - N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}}(N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}} + 1)/2 < 5$
in Table 7.1.6.3-2, then the set of two PRGs is starting from
$\text{RB}_{\text{start}}$;

\- if
$5 \leq RIV - N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}}(N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}} + 1)/2 < 10$,
then the set of two PRGs is ending ending at
$(\text{RB}_{\text{start}} + L_{\text{CRBs}} - 1)$.

If the UE is a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeB and configured with
higher layer parameter *ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig-r15*, the
set of PRGs is starting from the lowest RB of the narrowband
$n_{\text{NB}}$ shifted by $n_{\text{NB}}^{\text{shift}}$*, according
to* Table 6.2.7-1 \[3\].

Table 7.1.6.5-1

+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| System Bandwidth          | PRG Size (![](media/image190.wmf)) |
|                           |                                    |
| (![](media/image101.wmf)) | (PRBs)                             |
+===========================+====================================+
| ≤10                       | 1                                  |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| 11 -- 26                  | 2                                  |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| 27 -- 63                  | 3                                  |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| 64 -- 110                 | 2                                  |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+

For a given serving cell *c* and for slot/subslot-PDSCH transmissions,

\- if the UE is configured for transmission mode 9, 10 with PMI/RI
reporting and with higher layer parameter *widebandPRG- SlotSubslot* and
the scheduled PRBs are consecutive PRBs, the UE may assume that the same
precoder applies on all the scheduled PRBs,

\- otherwise, for a UE configured for transmission mode 9, 10 using
frame structure type 1 or transmission modes 8, 9, 10 using frame
structure type 2, precoding granularity is 2 resource blocks in
frequency domain. Precoding Resource block Groups (PRGs) of size 2
partition the system bandwidth and each PRG consists of consecutive
PRBs. The UE is expected to receive UE-specific reference signal
corresponding to a PDSCH over both resource blocks of a PRG. If
![](media/image193.wmf) then, PDSCH is not mapped to the last resource
block. The UE may assume that the same precoder applies on the two PRBs
within a PRG.

###  7.1.7 Modulation order and transport block size determination 

To determine the modulation order and transport block size(s) in the
physical downlink shared channel, the UE shall first

\- if the UE is a BL/CE UE

\- if PDSCH is assigned by MPDCCH DCI format 6-1A

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config-r15* and the DCI is mapped onto the UE specific
search space and the repetition number field in the DCI indicates PDSCH
repetition level 1

\- if \"Scheduling TBs for Unicast\" field in DCI format 6-1A is present
and either 4 or 6 TBs are scheduled by the corresponding DCI,

\- read the 4-bit \"modulation and coding scheme ()\" field in the DCI

\- the UE is not expected to receive a DCI format 6-1A indicating
![](media/image195.wmf){width="0.6513888888888889in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"}

\- otherwise,

\- read the 5-bit extended \"modulation and coding scheme ()\" field in
the DCI

\- otherwise

\- read the 4-bit \"modulation and coding scheme
(![](media/image194.wmf))\" field in the DCI

\- The UE is not expected to receive a DCI format 6-1A indicating
![](media/image196.wmf)

\- else if PDSCH is assigned by MPDCCH DCI format 6-2

\- read the 3-bit \"modulation and coding scheme
(![](media/image194.wmf))\" field in the DCI

\- The UE is not expected to receive a DCI format 6-2 indicating
![](media/image197.wmf)

\- else if PDSCH is assigned by MPDCCH DCI format 6-1B

\- read the 4-bit \"modulation and coding scheme
(![](media/image194.wmf))\" field in the DCI and set
![](media/image198.wmf)=![](media/image194.wmf).

\- else if PDSCH carriers *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*

\- set ![](media/image199.wmf) to the value of the parameter
*schedulingInfoSIB1-BR* configured by higher-layers

\- otherwise

\- read the 5 or 6-bit \"modulation and coding scheme\" field
(![](media/image200.wmf)) in the DCI

and second if the PDCCH DCI CRC is scrambled by P-RNTI, RA-RNTI, or
SI-RNTI then

\- for DCI format 1A:

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator![](media/image201.wmf) to
![](media/image202.wmf)from Clause 5.3.3.1.3 in \[4\]

\- for DCI format 1C:

\- use Table 7.1.7.2.3-1 for determining its transport block size.

else

\- if the UE is a BL/CE UE

\- if MPDCCH DCI CRC is scrambled by RA-RNTI for DCI format 6-1A

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator![](media/image201.wmf) to
![](media/image202.wmf)from Clause 5.3.3.1.12 in \[4\]

\- else if PDSCH is assigned by MPDCCH DCI format 6-2

\- use Table 7.1.7.2.3-1 for determining its transport block size.

\- else if PDSCH carriers *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*

\- use Clause 7.1.7.2.7 for determining its transport block size.

\- else if PDSCH is assigned by MPDCCH DCI format 6-1B

\- use Clause 7.1.7.2.6 for determining its transport block size if the
UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value ≥5MHz and not configured with
higher layer parameter *mpdcch-PDSCH-MaxBandwidth-SC-MTCH* with value 24
PRBs.

\- otherwise,

\- set ![](media/image203.wmf) to the total number of allocated PRBs
based on the procedure defined in Clause 7.1.6.

\- if PDSCH is assigned by MPDCCH DCI format 6-1A, the repetition number
field in the DCI indicates PDSCH repetition level 1, and the transport
block is transmitted in DwPTS of the special subframe in frame structure
type 2, then

\- for special subframe configuration 9 with normal cyclic prefix:

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator ![](media/image204.wmf)

\- for other special subframe configurations:

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator ![](media/image205.wmf),

\- else set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator
![](media/image206.wmf).

\- otherwise

\- set ![](media/image203.wmf) to the total number of allocated PRBs
based on the procedure defined in Clause 7.1.6.

\- if the higher layer parameter *altMCS-Table* is not configured, or
for PDSCH assigned by DCI other than DCI format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D
with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI; if the transport block is transmitted in
DwPTS of the special subframe in frame structure type 2, or is
transmitted in the subframes with the same duration as the DwPTS
duration of a special subframe configuration in frame structure type 3,
then

\- for special subframe configuration 9 and 10 with normal cyclic prefix
or special subframe configuration 7 with extended cyclic prefix:

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator ![](media/image204.wmf)

\- for other special subframe configurations:

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator ![](media/image205.wmf),

\- else if the higher layer parameter *altMCS-Table* is configured, and
for PDSCH assigned by DCI format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC
scrambled by C-RNTI; if the the transport block transmitted in DwPTS of
the special subframe in frame structure type 2, or is transmitted in the
subframes with the same duration as the DwPTS duration of a special
subframe configuration in frame structure type 3, then

\- if $44{\leq \ I}_{\text{MCS}} \leq 58$, set $\alpha$ to higher layer
parameter *altMCS-Table-scaling*, otherwise $\alpha = 1$

\- for special subframe configuration 9 and 10 with normal cyclic prefix
or special subframe configuration 7 with extended cyclic prefix:

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator
$N_{\text{PRB}} = \max\left\{ \left\lfloor N_{\text{PRB}}^{'} \times \ 0.375 \times \ \alpha \right\rfloor,1 \right\}$

\- for other special subframe configurations:

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator
$N_{\text{PRB}} = \max\left\{ \left\lfloor N_{\text{PRB}}^{'} \times 0.75 \times \ \alpha \right\rfloor,1 \right\}$

\- else if the higher layer parameter *altMCS-Table* is configured, and
for PDSCH assigned by DCI format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC
scrambled by C-RNTI; then

\- if $44{\leq \ I}_{\text{MCS}} \leq 58$, set $\alpha$ to higher layer
parameter *altMCS-Table-scaling*, otherwise $\alpha = 1$

\- set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator
$N_{\text{PRB}} = \max\left\{ \left\lfloor N_{\text{PRB}}^{'} \times \ \alpha \right\rfloor,1 \right\}$

\- else, set the Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 column indicator
![](media/image206.wmf).

\- for DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, the derived
transport block size (after TBS translation as described in clauses
7.1.7.2.2, 7.1.7.2.4, 7.1.7.2.5 when the transport block is mapped to
more than one spatial layer) is scaled by α (![](media/image207.wmf)for
slot-PDSCH, and![](media/image208.wmf) for subslot-PDSCH), then rounded
to the closest (NOTE 1) valid transport block size in

\- Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 when the transport block is mapped to one spatial
layer,

\- The union of Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 and Table 7.1.7.2.2-1 when the
transport block is mapped to two spatial layers,

\- The union of Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 and Table 7.1.7.2.4-1 when the
transport block is mapped to three spatial layers,

\- The union of Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 and Table 7.1.7.2.5-1 when the
transport block is mapped to four spatial layers.

If the scaled TBS is closest to two valid transport block sizes, it is
rounded to the larger transport block size.

NOTE 1: In the rounding procedure, and for a given serving cell:

\- For UEs configured with neither *altCQI-Table1024QAM-STTI* nor
*altCQI-TableSTTI*, the UE shall only include in the rounding procedure
the TBS entries present in Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 with
$I_{\text{TBS}} \leq 26A$, and the entries in 7.1.7.2.2-1, 7.1.7.2.4-1,
7.1.7.2.5-1 for which the TBS\_L1 is present in Table 7.1.7.2.1-1 with
$I_{\text{TBS}} \leq 26A$.

\- For UEs configured with *altCQI-TableSTTI*, the UE shall only include
in the rounding procedure the TBS entries present in Table 7.1.7.2.1-1
with $I_{\text{TBS}} \leq 33B$, and the entries in 7.1.7.2.2-1,
7.1.7.2.4-1, 7.1.7.2.5-1 for which the TBS\_L1 is present in Table
7.1.7.2.1-1 with $I_{\text{TBS}} \leq 33B$.

The UE may skip decoding a transport block in an initial transmission if
the effective channel code rate is higher than 0.932, where the
effective channel code rate is defined as the number of downlink
information bits (including CRC bits) divided by the number of physical
channel bits on PDSCH. If the UE skips decoding, the physical layer
indicates to higher layer that the transport block is not successfully
decoded. For the special subframe configurations 0 and 5 with normal
downlink CP or configurations 0 and 4 with extended downlink CP in frame
structure type 2, or for subframes with the same duration as the DwPTS
duration of the special subframe configuration 0 and 5 in frame
structure type 3, with the special subframe configurations shown in
Table 4.2-1 of \[3\], or for the special subframe configuration 10
configured by the higher layer signalling *ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS*, a
non-BL/CE UE shall assume there is no PDSCH transmission in DwPTS of the
special subframe.

For frame structure type 2, a BL/CE UE shall assume PDSCH is dropped in
a special subframe considered as BL/CE DL subframe according to Clause
6.8B.1 of \[3\] in the following cases

\- for PDSCH scheduled from UE-specific search space, Type0-MPDCCH
common search space, Type1-MPDCCH common search space, Type1A-MPDCCH
common search space, Type2-MPDCCH common search space or Type2A-MPDCCH
common search space, if an MPDCCH belonging to the corresponding search
space is dropped in the special subframe according to clause 9.1.5.

\- if PDSCH carries SI messages.

#### 7.1.7.1 Modulation order and redundancy version determination

For BL/CE UEs configured with CEModeA, ![](media/image194.wmf)is used in
place of ![](media/image200.wmf)in the rest of this Clause.

The UE shall use ![](media/image209.wmf)**= 2** if the DCI CRC is
scrambled by P-RNTI, RA-RNTI, SI-RNTI, or SC-RNTI, or if PDSCH is
assigned by MPDCCH DCI Format 6-1B, or if PDSCH carriers
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*, or if PDSCH carries BL/CE SI messages,
or if the UE is configured with CEModeA and higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-puschEnhancement-config* with value \'On\' and repetition
number field in the corresponding DCI indicates a value greater than 1,
otherwise,

\- if the higher layer parameter *altMCS-Table* is configured, and if
the PDSCH is assigned by a PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI,

\- if the assigned PDSCH is transmitted only in the second slot of a
subframe, the UE shall useand Table 7.1.7.1-1C to determine the
modulation order (). The modulation order () used in the physical
downlink shared channel is set to ;

\- otherwise, the UE shall useand Table 7.1.7.1-1C to determine the
modulation order () used in the physical downlink shared channel.

\- else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-r15* is
configured, and if the PDSCH is assigned by a PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI
format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI,

\- if the assigned PDSCH is transmitted only in the second slot of a
subframe, the UE shall use![](media/image200.wmf)and Table 7.1.7.1-1B to
determine the modulation order (![](media/image210.wmf)). The modulation
order (![](media/image209.wmf)) used in the physical downlink shared
channel is set to ![](media/image211.wmf);

\- otherwise, the UE shall use![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1B to determine the modulation order (![](media/image209.wmf))
used in the physical downlink shared channel.

\- else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-STTI\_r15*
is configured, and if the PDSCH is assigned by a PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI
or SPS-C-RNTI,

\- the UE shall use![](media/image200.wmf)and Table 7.1.7.1-1B to
determine the modulation order (![](media/image209.wmf)) used in the
physical downlink shared channel.

\- else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-r12* is configured,
and if the PDSCH is assigned by a PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI,

\- if the assigned PDSCH is transmitted only in the second slot of a
subframe, the UE shall use![](media/image200.wmf)and Table 7.1.7.1-1A to
determine the modulation order (![](media/image210.wmf)). The modulation
order (![](media/image209.wmf)) used in the physical downlink shared
channel is set to ![](media/image211.wmf);

\- otherwise, the UE shall use![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1A to determine the modulation order (![](media/image209.wmf))
used in the physical downlink shared channel.

\- else

\- if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-STTI-r15* is configured,
and if the PDSCH is assigned by a PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI,

\- the UE shall use![](media/image212.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.25in"}and Table 7.1.7.1-1A to determine the modulation order
(![](media/image213.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"}) used in the
physical downlink shared channel.

\- if the assigned PDSCH is transmitted only in the second slot of a
subframe, the UE shall use![](media/image200.wmf)and Table 7.1.7.1-1 to
determine the modulation order (![](media/image210.wmf)). The modulation
order (![](media/image209.wmf)) used in the physical downlink shared
channel is set to ![](media/image211.wmf);

\- otherwise, the UE shall use![](media/image200.wmf)and Table 7.1.7.1-1
to determine the modulation order (![](media/image209.wmf)) used in the
physical downlink shared channel.

Table 7.1.7.1-1: Modulation and TBS index table for PDSCH

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **MCS Index\                **Modulation Order\         **Modulation Order\         **TBS Index\
  **![](media/image200.wmf)   **![](media/image209.wmf)   **![](media/image214.wmf)   **![](media/image215.wmf)
  --------------------------- --------------------------- --------------------------- ---------------------------
  **0**                       2                           2                           0

  **1**                       2                           2                           1

  **2**                       2                           2                           2

  **3**                       2                           2                           3

  **4**                       2                           2                           4

  **5**                       2                           4                           5

  **6**                       2                           4                           6

  **7**                       2                           4                           7

  **8**                       2                           4                           8

  **9**                       2                           4                           9

  **10**                      4                           6                           9

  **11**                      4                           6                           10

  **12**                      4                           6                           11

  **13**                      4                           6                           12

  **14**                      4                           6                           13

  **15**                      4                           6                           14

  **16**                      4                           6                           15

  **17**                      6                           6                           15

  **18**                      6                           6                           16

  **19**                      6                           6                           17

  **20**                      6                           6                           18

  **21**                      6                           6                           19

  **22**                      6                           6                           20

  **23**                      6                           6                           21

  **24**                      6                           6                           22

  **25**                      6                           6                           23

  **26**                      6                           6                           24

  **27**                      6                           6                           25

  **28**                      6                           6                           26/26A

  **29**                      2                           2                           reserved

  **30**                      4                           4                           

  **31**                      6                           6                           
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.1.7.1-1A. Modulation and TBS index table 2 for PDSCH

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **MCS Index\                **Modulation Order\         **Modulation Order\         **TBS Index\
  **![](media/image200.wmf)   **![](media/image209.wmf)   **![](media/image214.wmf)   **![](media/image215.wmf)
  --------------------------- --------------------------- --------------------------- ---------------------------
  **0**                       2                           2                           0

  **1**                       2                           2                           2

  **2**                       2                           2                           4

  **3**                       2                           4                           6

  **4**                       2                           4                           8

  **5**                       4                           6                           10

  **6**                       4                           6                           11

  **7**                       4                           6                           12

  **8**                       4                           6                           13

  **9**                       4                           6                           14

  **10**                      4                           8                           15

  **11**                      6                           8                           16

  **12**                      6                           8                           17

  **13**                      6                           8                           18

  **14**                      6                           8                           19

  **15**                      6                           8                           20

  **16**                      6                           8                           21

  **17**                      6                           8                           22

  **18**                      6                           8                           23

  **19**                      6                           8                           24

  **20**                      8                           8                           25

  **21**                      8                           8                           27

  **22**                      8                           8                           28

  **23**                      8                           8                           29

  **24**                      8                           8                           30

  **25**                      8                           8                           31

  **26**                      8                           8                           32

  **27**                      8                           8                           33/33A/33B

  **28**                      2                           2                           reserved

  **29**                      4                           4                           

  **30**                      6                           6                           

  **31**                      8                           8                           
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.1.7.1-1B. Modulation and TBS index table 3 for PDSCH

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **MCS Index\                **Modulation Order\         **Modulation Order\         **TBS Index\
  **![](media/image200.wmf)   **![](media/image209.wmf)   **![](media/image214.wmf)   **![](media/image215.wmf)
  --------------------------- --------------------------- --------------------------- ---------------------------
  **0**                       2                           2                           0

  **1**                       2                           2                           2

  **2**                       2                           2                           4

  **3**                       2                           4                           6

  **4**                       2                           4                           8

  **5**                       4                           6                           11

  **6**                       4                           6                           13

  **7**                       4                           8                           15

  **8**                       6                           8                           16

  **9**                       6                           8                           18

  **10**                      6                           8                           20

  **11**                      6                           8                           21

  **12**                      6                           8                           22

  **13**                      6                           8                           23

  **14**                      6                           8                           24

  **15**                      8                           8                           25

  **16**                      8                           8                           27

  **17**                      8                           8                           28

  **18**                      8                           8                           29

  **19**                      8                           8                           30

  **20**                      8                           8                           31

  **21**                      8                           8                           32

  **22**                      8                           8                           33/33A/33B

  **23**                      10                          10                          34A

  **24**                      10                          10                          35

  **25**                      10                          10                          36

  **26**                      10                          10                          37A/37

  **27**                      2                           2                           reserved

  **28**                      4                           4                           

  **29**                      6                           6                           

  **30**                      8                           8                           

  **31**                      10                          10                          
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.1.7.1-1C. Modulation and TBS index table 4 for PDSCH

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **MCS Index\   **Modulation Order\   **Modulation Order\   **TBS Index\
  **             **                    **                    **
  -------------- --------------------- --------------------- --------------
  **0**          2                     2                     0

  **1**          2                     2                     1

  **2**          2                     2                     2

  **3**          2                     2                     3

  **4**          2                     2                     4

  **5**          2                     4                     5

  **6**          2                     4                     6

  **7**          2                     4                     7

  **8**          2                     4                     8

  **9**          2                     4                     9

  **10**         4                     6                     9

  **11**         4                     6                     10

  **12**         4                     6                     11

  **13**         4                     6                     12

  **14**         4                     6                     13

  **15**         4                     6                     14

  **16**         4                     6                     15

  **17**         6                     6                     15

  **18**         6                     6                     16

  **19**         6                     6                     17

  **20**         6                     6                     18

  **21**         6                     6                     19

  **22**         6                     6                     20

  **23**         6                     6                     21

  **24**         6                     6                     22

  **25**         6                     6                     23

  **26**         6                     6                     24

  **27**         6                     6                     25

  **28**         6                     6                     27

  **29**         6                     6                     28

  **30**         8                     8                     25

  **31**         8                     8                     27

  **32**         8                     8                     28

  **33**         8                     8                     29

  **34**         8                     8                     30

  **35**         8                     8                     31

  **36**         8                     8                     32

  **37**         8                     8                     33A

  **38**         8                     8                     33/33B

  **39**         10                    10                    34A

  **40**         10                    10                    35

  **41**         10                    10                    36

  **42**         10                    10                    37A

  **43**         10                    10                    37

  **44**         2                     2                     0

  **45**         2                     2                     2

  **46**         4                     6                     9

  **47**         4                     6                     11

  **48**         4                     6                     13

  **49**         6                     6                     15

  **50**         6                     6                     17

  **51**         6                     6                     19

  **52**         6                     6                     21

  **53**         8                     8                     25

  **54**         8                     8                     28

  **55**         8                     8                     30

  **56**         8                     8                     32

  **57**         10                    10                    34A

  **58**         10                    10                    36

  **59**         2                     2                     Reserved

  **60**         4                     4                     

  **61**         6                     6                     

  **62**         8                     8                     

  **63**         10                    10                    
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

For a given serving cell, if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *blindSubframePDSCH-Repetitions*, for PDSCH transmitted in a
given block of *k* subframes corresponding to DCI format 1A with CRC
scrambled by C-RNTI in UE-specific search space, the redundancy version
(*rv~idx~*) for the ![](media/image216.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} subframe is determined according to

\- Table 7.1.7.1-2 using , where if the configured higher layer
parameter *RV-cyclingSequenceSubframePDSCH-Repetitions* parameter is set
to \'{0,2,3,1}\';

\- Otherwise, for all of the *k* PDSCH transmissions.

where the value of and *k* are determined by the \'Redundancy version\'
and \'Repetition number\' fields in the corresponding DCI, respectively.

For a given serving cell, if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *blindSlotSubslotPDSCH-Repetitions*, for PDSCH transmitted in
a given block of *k* slots/subslots corresponding to DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, the redundancy version (*rv~idx~*)
for the ![](media/image216.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"}
slot/subslot is determined according to

\- Table 7.1.7.1-2 using , where if the configured higher layer
parameter *RV-cyclingSequenceSlotsublotPDSCH-Repetitions* parameter is
set to \'{0,2,3,1}\';

\- Otherwise, for all of the *k* PDSCH transmissions.

where the value of and *k* are determined by the \'Redundancy version\'
and \'Repetition number\' fields in the corresponding DCI, respectively.

For a UE configured with *altMCS-Table*, the UE is not expected to
receive a PDSCH with a modulation order of 1024QAM unless configured
with *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-r15*, and the UE is not expected to receive a
PDSCH with a modulation order of 256QAM unless configured with
*altCQI-Table-r12* or *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-r15*.

For BL/CE UEs, for a PDSCH not carrying *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*
or SI message, the same redundancy version is applied to PDSCH
associated with a TB that is transmitted in a given block of
![](media/image221.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"} consecutive subframes associated with
the TB, including subframes that are not BL/CE DL subframes. The
subframe number of the first subframe in each block of
![](media/image221.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"}consecutive subframes, denoted as
![](media/image222.wmf){width="0.3486111111111111in"
height="0.2791666666666667in"}, satisfies
![](media/image223.wmf){width="1.5465277777777777in"
height="0.2791666666666667in"}, where
![](media/image224.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} for FDD and
![](media/image225.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} for TDD. Denote
![](media/image226.wmf){width="0.15138888888888888in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"} as the subframe number of the first
downlink subframe intended for PDSCH associated with a TB, as defined in
Clause 7.1.11. The PDSCH transmission associated with the TB spans
$N_{abs,TB}^{\text{PDSCH}}$ consecutive subframes associated with the
TB, including subframes that are not BL/CE DL subframes where the PDSCH
transmission is postponed and excluding subframes associated with other
TBs scheduled by the DCI, if any. For the
![](media/image216.wmf){width="0.22083333333333333in"
height="0.24444444444444444in"} block of
![](media/image227.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"}consecutive subframes within the set of
$N_{abs,TB}^{\text{PDSCH}}$ subframes associated with the TB as
described above, the redundancy version (*rv~idx~*) associated with the
TB is determined according to Table 7.1.7.1-2 using
![](media/image228.wmf){width="1.4652777777777777in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"}, where
![](media/image229.wmf){width="1.3486111111111112in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"}, and
$J^{\text{PDSCH}} = \left\lceil \frac{N_{abs,TB}^{\text{PDSCH}}\  + \left( \left( i_{0} - \delta \right)\ \text{mod}\ N_{\text{acc}} \right)}{N_{\text{acc}}} \right\rceil$.
The ![](media/image230.wmf){width="0.48819444444444443in"
height="0.22083333333333333in"} blocks of subframes are sequential in
time, starting with ![](media/image231.wmf){width="0.3840277777777778in"
height="0.22083333333333333in"} to which
subframe![](media/image226.wmf){width="0.15138888888888888in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"} belongs. For a BL/CE UE configured with
CEModeB, or a BL/CE UE receiving PDSCH associated with P-RNTI,
![](media/image232.wmf){width="0.5347222222222222in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"} for FDD and
![](media/image233.wmf){width="0.5930555555555556in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"} for TDD, and
![](media/image234.wmf){width="0.6513888888888889in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"}. For a BL/CE UE configured in CEModeA,
![](media/image235.wmf){width="0.5118055555555555in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"}. For a BL/CE UE configured in CEModeA
and not configured with the higher layer parameter
***ce-PDSCH-MultiTB-Config***,
![](media/image236.wmf){width="0.37222222222222223in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"} for the TB is determined by the
\'Redundancy version\' field in DCI format 6-1A. For a BL/CE UE
configured in CEModeA and configured with higher layer parameter
***ce-PDSCH-MultiTB-Config***,

\- if $N_{\text{TB}} = 1$,
![](media/image236.wmf){width="0.37222222222222223in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"}for the TB is determined by the
\'Redundancy version\' in the \'Scheduling TBs for Unicast\' field in
DCI format 6-1A

\- else if $N_{\text{TB}} = 2$ and the HARQ process IDs for each of the
scheduled TBs are h~1~ and h~2~ (h~1~\<h~2~),
![](media/image236.wmf){width="0.3840277777777778in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"} of the scheduled TB with HARQ process ID
h~1~ is determined by the \'Redundancy version for TB 1\' in the
\'Scheduling TBs for Unicast\' field in DCI format 6-1A, and
![](media/image236.wmf){width="0.3840277777777778in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"} of the scheduled TB with HARQ process ID
h~2~ is determined as follows:

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config* and the repetition number field in the DCI
indicates no PDSCH repetition, it is given by the\'Redundancy version
for TB 1\' in the \'Scheduling TBs for Unicast\' field in DCI format
6-1A

\- else if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig* set to \'on\' and the repetition number
field in the DCI indicates PDSCH repetition, it is given by the
\'Redundancy version for TB 1\' in the \'Scheduling TBs for Unicast\'
field in DCI format 6-1A

\- else it is given by the \'Redundancy version for TB 2\' in the
\'Scheduling TBs for Unicast\' field in DCI format 6-1A

\- else if $N_{\text{TB}}$ = 4 or 6 is indicated by the corresponding
DCI, ![](media/image234.wmf){width="0.6513888888888889in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"} for all scheduled TBs

\- else

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config* and the repetition number field in the DCI
indicates no PDSCH repetition,
![](media/image234.wmf){width="0.6513888888888889in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"} for all TBs

\- else if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig* set to \'on\' and the repetition number
field in the DCI indicates PDSCH repetition,
![](media/image234.wmf){width="0.6513888888888889in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"} for all TBs

\- else ![](media/image236.wmf){width="0.3840277777777778in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"} of all TBs is determined by the
\'Redundancy version for all TBs\' in the \'Scheduling TBs for Unicast\'
field in DCI format 6-1A.

Table 7.1.7.1-2: Redundancy version

  -----------------------------------------
  **Redundancy version Index\   *rv~idx~*
  **![](media/image237.wmf)     
  ----------------------------- -----------
  **0**                         0

  **1**                         2

  **2**                         3

  **3**                         1
  -----------------------------------------

#### 7.1.7.2 Transport block size determination

For BL/CE UEs configured with CEModeA, ![](media/image194.wmf) is used
in place of ![](media/image200.wmf)in the rest of this Clause

If the DCI CRC is scrambled by P-RNTI, RA-RNTI, or SI-RNTI then

\- for DCI format 1A or DCI format 6-1A:

\- the UE shall set the TBS index (![](media/image215.wmf)) equal to
![](media/image200.wmf) and determine its TBS by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7.2.1 for ![](media/image238.wmf).

\- for DCI format 1C and DCI format 6-2:

\- the UE shall set the TBS index (![](media/image215.wmf)) equal to
![](media/image200.wmf) and determine its TBS from Table 7.1.7.2.3-1.

else if the DCI CRC is scrambled by SC-RNTI then

\- the UE shall set the TBS index (![](media/image215.wmf)) equal to
![](media/image200.wmf) and determine its TBS from Table 7.1.7.2.3-1.

else if the higher layer parameter *altMCS-Table* is configured, and for
DCI format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI

\- for ${0 \leq \ I}_{\text{MCS}} \leq \ 58$, the UE shall first
determine the TBS index () usingand Table 7.1.7.1-1C except if the
transport block is disabled in DCI formats 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D as
specified below. When $\text{\ I}_{\text{MCS}} = 38$, if the UE is
scheduled by DCI formats 1/1B/2/2A and is configured with b33 in
*tbsIndexAlt2*, is 33B; otherwise is 33. For a transport block that is
not mapped to more than single-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is
determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1. For a transport block
that is mapped to two-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined
by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.2. For a transport block that is
mapped to three-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the
procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.4. For a transport block that is mapped to
four-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure
in Clause 7.1.7.2.5.

\- for ${59 \leq \ I}_{\text{MCS}} \leq \ 63$, the TBS is assumed to be
as determined from DCI transported in the latest PDCCH/EPDCCH for the
same transport block using ${0 \leq \ I}_{\text{MCS}} \leq \ 58$.

\- In DCI formats 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D a transport block is disabled if
and if *rv~idx~* = 1 otherwise the transport block is enabled.

else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-r12* is configured,
then

\- for DCI format 1A with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI and for DCI format
1/1A/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC scrambled by SPS C-RNTI:

\- for ![](media/image240.wmf), the UE shall first determine the TBS
index (![](media/image215.wmf)) using![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1 except if the transport block is disabled in DCI formats 2,
2A, 2B, 2C and 2D as specified below. For a transport block that is not
mapped to more than single-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is
determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1.

\- for![](media/image241.wmf), the TBS is assumed to be as determined
from DCI transported in the latest PDCCH/EPDCCH for the same transport
block using ![](media/image242.wmf). If there is no PDCCH/EPDCCH for the
same transport block using![](media/image243.wmf), and if the initial
PDSCH for the same transport block is semi-persistently scheduled, the
TBS shall be determined from the most recent semi-persistent scheduling
assignment PDCCH/EPDCCH.

\- In DCI formats 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D a transport block is disabled if
![](media/image239.wmf) and if *rv~idx~* = 1 otherwise the transport
block is enabled.

\- for DCI format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI

\- for ![](media/image244.wmf), the UE shall first determine the TBS
index (![](media/image215.wmf)) using![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1A except if the transport block is disabled in DCI formats 2,
2A, 2B, 2C and 2D as specified below. When ![](media/image245.wmf), if
the UE is scheduled by DCI formats 2C/2D and is configured with a33 in
*tbsIndexAlt*, ![](media/image215.wmf) is 33A, or if the UE is scheduled
by DCI formats 1/1B/2/2A and is configured with b33 in *tbsIndexAlt2*,
![](media/image215.wmf) is 33B; otherwise ![](media/image215.wmf) is 33.
For a transport block that is not mapped to more than single-layer
spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7.2.1. For a transport block that is mapped to two-layer spatial
multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7.2.2. For a transport block that is mapped to three-layer spatial
multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7.2.4. For a transport block that is mapped to four-layer spatial
multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7.2.5.

\- for ![](media/image246.wmf), the TBS is assumed to be as determined
from DCI transported in the latest PDCCH/EPDCCH for the same transport
block using ![](media/image247.wmf).

\- In DCI formats 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D a transport block is disabled if
![](media/image239.wmf) and if *rv~idx~* = 1 otherwise the transport
block is enabled.

else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-STTI-r15* is
configured, then

\- for DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G with CRC scrambled
by SPS C-RNTI:

\- for ![](media/image248.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.25in"}, the UE shall determine the TBS index
(![](media/image249.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"})
using![](media/image212.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.25in"} by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.

\- for![](media/image250.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.25in"}, the TBS is assumed to be as determined from DCI
transported in the latest PDCCH/SPDCCH for the same transport block
using ![](media/image251.wmf){width="0.75in" height="0.25in"}. If there
is no PDCCH/SPDCCH for the same transport block
using![](media/image252.wmf){width="0.75in" height="0.25in"}, and if the
initial PDSCH for the same transport block is semi-persistently
scheduled, the TBS shall be determined from the most recent
semi-persistent scheduling assignment PDCCH/SPDCCH.

\- for DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G with CRC scrambled
by C-RNTI

\- for ![](media/image253.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.25in"}, the UE shall first determine the TBS index
(![](media/image249.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"})
using![](media/image212.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.25in"}and Table 7.1.7.1-1A. When ![](media/image245.wmf), if
the UE is scheduled by DCI formats 7-1F/7-1G and is configured with a33
in *tbsIndexAlt-STTI*, ![](media/image215.wmf) is 33A, or if the UE is
scheduled by DCI formats 7-1D/7-1C/7-1B and is configured with b33 in
*tbsIndexAlt2-STTI*, ![](media/image215.wmf) is 33B; otherwise
![](media/image215.wmf) is 33.When
![](media/image254.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.25in"},
![](media/image249.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"} is 33. The TBS
is determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.

\- for ![](media/image255.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.25in"}, the TBS is assumed to be as determined from DCI
transported in the latest PDCCH/SPDCCH for the same transport block
using ![](media/image256.wmf){width="0.75in" height="0.25in"}.

else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-r15* is
configured, then

\- for DCI format 1A with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI and for DCI format
1/1A/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC scrambled by SPS C-RNTI:

\- for ![](media/image240.wmf), the UE shall first determine the TBS
index (![](media/image215.wmf)) using![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1. For a transport block, the TBS is determined by the procedure
in Clause 7.1.7.2.1.

\- for ![](media/image241.wmf), the TBS is assumed to be as determined
from DCI transported in the latest PDCCH/EPDCCH for the same transport
block using ![](media/image257.wmf). If there is no PDCCH/EPDCCH for the
same transport block using ![](media/image243.wmf), and if the initial
PDSCH for the same transport block is semi-persistently scheduled, the
TBS shall be determined from the most recent semi-persistent scheduling
assignment PDCCH/EPDCCH.

\- for DCI format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI;

\- for ![](media/image258.wmf), the UE shall first determine the TBS
index (![](media/image215.wmf)) using![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1B except if the transport block is disabled in DCI formats 2,
2A, 2B, 2C and 2D as specified below. When ![](media/image259.wmf), if
the UE is scheduled by DCI formats 2C/2D and is configured with a33 in
*tbsIndexAlt*, ![](media/image215.wmf) is 33A, or if the UE is scheduled
by DCI formats 1/1B/2/2A and is configured with b33 in *tbsIndexAlt2*,
![](media/image215.wmf) is 33B; otherwise ![](media/image215.wmf) is 33.
When ![](media/image260.wmf), if the UE is configured with a37 in
*tbsIndexAlt3*, ![](media/image215.wmf) is 37A, otherwise
![](media/image215.wmf) is 37. For a transport block that is not mapped
to more than single-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by
the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1. For a transport block that is mapped
to two-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the
procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.2. For a transport block that is mapped to
three-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure
in Clause 7.1.7.2.4. For a transport block that is mapped to four-layer
spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7.2.5.

\- for ![](media/image261.wmf), the TBS is assumed to be as determined
from DCI transported in the latest PDCCH/EPDCCH for the same transport
block using ![](media/image262.wmf). If there is no PDCCH/EPDCCH for the
same transport block using ![](media/image263.wmf), and if the initial
PDSCH for the same transport block is semi-persistently scheduled, the
TBS shall be determined from the most recent semi-persistent scheduling
assignment PDCCH/EPDCCH.

\- In DCI formats 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D a transport block is disabled if
![](media/image239.wmf) and if *rv~idx~* = 1 otherwise the transport
block is enabled.

else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-STTI\_r15* is
configured, then

\- for DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G with CRC scrambled
by C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI;

\- for ![](media/image258.wmf), the UE shall first determine the TBS
index (![](media/image215.wmf)) using![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1B. When ![](media/image259.wmf), if the UE is scheduled by DCI
formats 7-1F/7-1G and is configured with a33 in *tbsIndexAlt-STTI*,
![](media/image215.wmf) is 33A, or if the UE is scheduled by DCI formats
7-1B/7-1C/7-1D and is configured with b33 in *tbsIndexAlt2-STTI*,
![](media/image215.wmf) is 33B; otherwise ![](media/image215.wmf) is 33.
When ![](media/image260.wmf), if the UE is scheduled by DCI formats
7-1F/7-1G and is configured with a37 in *tbsIndexAlt3-STTI*,
![](media/image215.wmf) is 37A, otherwise ![](media/image215.wmf) is 37.
For a transport block that is not mapped to more than single-layer
spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7 and 7.1.7.2.1. For a transport block that is mapped to two-layer
spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7 and 7.1.7.2.2. For a transport block that is mapped to three-layer
spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7 and 7.1.7.2.4. For a transport block that is mapped to four-layer
spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7 and 7.1.7.2.5.

\- for ![](media/image261.wmf), the TBS is assumed to be as determined
from DCI transported in the latest PDCCH/SPDCCH for the same transport
block using ![](media/image262.wmf). If there is no PDCCH/SPDCCH for the
same transport block using ![](media/image263.wmf), and if the initial
PDSCH for the same transport block is semi-persistently scheduled, the
TBS shall be determined from the most recent semi-persistent scheduling
assignment PDCCH/SPDCCH.

else if the UE supports *ce-pdsch-pusch-maxBandwidth* with value ≥5MHz,
or if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config-r15* and the MPDCCH DCI format 6-1A is mapped
onto the UE specific search space and the repetition number field in the
DCI indicates PDSCH repetition level 1,

\- for![](media/image264.wmf){width="0.8729166666666667in"
height="0.21944444444444444in"}, the TBS is assumed to be as determined
from DCI transported in the latest MPDCCH for the same transport block
using ![](media/image265.wmf){width="0.8152777777777778in"
height="0.21944444444444444in"}. If there is no MPDCCH for the same
transport block
using![](media/image266.wmf){width="0.8034722222222223in"
height="0.21944444444444444in"}, and if the initial PDSCH for the same
transport block is semi-persistently scheduled, the TBS shall be
determined from the most recent semi-persistent scheduling assignment
MPDCCH.

\- for![](media/image265.wmf){width="0.8152777777777778in"
height="0.21944444444444444in"}the UE shall first determine the TBS
index (![](media/image215.wmf)) using![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value 5MHz or if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *pdsch-MaxBandwidth-SC-MTCH* with
value 24 PRBs

\- For CEModeA,

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config-r15* and the MPDCCH DCI format 6-1A is mapped
onto the UE specific search space and the repetition number field in the
DCI indicates PDSCH repetition level 1,

\- set to the TBS determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1,

\-

\- otherwise, TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.8 for
![](media/image269.wmf)

\- For CEModeB, TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.8
for ![](media/image270.wmf)

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value \> 5MHz

\- For CEModeA,

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config-r15* and the MPDCCH DCI format 6-1A is mapped
onto the UE specific search space and the repetition number field in the
DCI indicates PDSCH repetition level 1,

\- set to the TBS determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1,

\-

\- otherwise, TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1 for
![](media/image269.wmf)

\- For CEModeB, TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1
for ![](media/image270.wmf)

\- otherwise,

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config-r15* and the MPDCCH DCI format 6-1A is mapped
onto the UE specific search space and the repetition number field in the
DCI indicates PDSCH repetition level 1,

\- set to the TBS determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1,

\- $TBS = \min\begin{Bmatrix}
\text{TB}S^{'}, & 1000 \\
\end{Bmatrix}$

\- otherwise

\- TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1

else

\- for![](media/image272.wmf), the UE shall first determine the TBS
index (![](media/image215.wmf)) using![](media/image200.wmf)and Table
7.1.7.1-1 except if the transport block is disabled in DCI formats 2,
2A, 2B, 2C and 2D as specified below. When ![](media/image273.wmf), if
the UE is scheduled by DCI formats 2C/2D and is configured with a26 in
*tbsIndexAlt*, ![](media/image215.wmf) is 26A; otherwise
![](media/image215.wmf) is 26. For a transport block that is not mapped
to more than single-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by
the procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.1. For a transport block that is mapped
to two-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the
procedure in Clause 7.1.7.2.2. For a transport block that is mapped to
three-layer spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure
in Clause 7.1.7.2.4. For a transport block that is mapped to four-layer
spatial multiplexing, the TBS is determined by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7.2.5.

\- for![](media/image274.wmf), the TBS is assumed to be as determined
from DCI transported in the latest PDCCH/EPDCCH for the same transport
block using ![](media/image272.wmf). If there is no PDCCH/EPDCCH for the
same transport block using![](media/image275.wmf), and if the initial
PDSCH for the same transport block is semi-persistently scheduled, the
TBS shall be determined from the most recent semi-persistent scheduling
assignment PDCCH/EPDCCH.

\- In DCI formats 2, 2A, 2B, 2C and 2D a transport block is disabled if
![](media/image276.wmf) and if *rv~idx~* = 1 otherwise the transport
block is enabled.

For a BL/CE UE, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
***ce-PDSCH-MultiTB-Config*** and *multiple TB,* , *are scheduled* in
the corresponding DCI with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI, the HARQ process ID
for each of the scheduled TBs are determined from the value of the
\'HARQ index with offset\' in the \'Scheduling TBs for Unicast\' field
for CEmodeA or the HARQ index in the \'Scheduling TBs for Unicast\'
field for CEmodeB in the corresponding DCI which is a combinatorial
index *r* defined as $+ r_{\text{offset}}$, where

\- the set , () contains the sorted HARQ process IDs and is the extended
binomial coefficient, resulting in unique label $+ r_{\text{offset}}$,

\- $r_{\text{offset}}$ is the offset value as defined in 5.3.3.1.12 of
\[4\] for CE mode A, and $r_{\text{offset}} = 0$ for CEmodeB,

\- is the number of scheduled TB, and

\- if UE is configured with CEModeA, and if UE is configured with
CEModeB,

\- if UE is configured with CEModeA, and \'Multi-TB HARQ processes
group\' field is present and set to \'1\' in the corresponding DCI,
otherwise.

For a BL/CE UE, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
***ce-PDSCH-MultiTB-Config*** and $N_{TB,max}$ *TBs are scheduled* in
the corresponding DCI with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI, the HARQ process IDs
for each scheduled TB are $h_{i} = i + \text{kN}_{TB,max}$ ,
$i = 0,1,\ldots,N_{TB,max} - 1$, where

\- if UE is configured with CEModeA, and if UE is configured with
CEModeB,

\- if UE is configured with CEModeA, and \'Multi-TB HARQ processes
group\' field is present and set to \'1\' in the corresponding DCI,
otherwise.

The NDI and HARQ process ID, as signalled on PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH,
and the TBS, as determined above, shall be delivered to higher layers.

##### 7.1.7.2.1 Transport blocks not mapped to two or more layer spatial multiplexing

For![](media/image289.wmf), the TBS is given by the
(![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image201.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.1-1.

Table 7.1.7.2.1-1: Transport block size table (dimension 44×110)

  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
  ------------------------- ------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ---------
                            1                         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10
  0                         16                        32        56        88        120       152       176       208       224       256
  1                         24                        56        88        144       176       208       224       256       328       344
  2                         32                        72        144       176       208       256       296       328       376       424
  3                         40                        104       176       208       256       328       392       440       504       568
  4                         56                        120       208       256       328       408       488       552       632       696
  5                         72                        144       224       328       424       504       600       680       776       872
  6                         328                       176       256       392       504       600       712       808       936       1032
  7                         104                       224       328       472       584       712       840       968       1096      1224
  8                         120                       256       392       536       680       808       968       1096      1256      1384
  9                         136                       296       456       616       776       936       1096      1256      1416      1544
  10                        144                       328       504       680       872       1032      1224      1384      1544      1736
  11                        176                       376       584       776       1000      1192      1384      1608      1800      2024
  12                        208                       440       680       904       1128      1352      1608      1800      2024      2280
  13                        224                       488       744       1000      1256      1544      1800      2024      2280      2536
  14                        256                       552       840       1128      1416      1736      1992      2280      2600      2856
  15                        280                       600       904       1224      1544      1800      2152      2472      2728      3112
  16                        328                       632       968       1288      1608      1928      2280      2600      2984      3240
  17                        336                       696       1064      1416      1800      2152      2536      2856      3240      3624
  18                        376                       776       1160      1544      1992      2344      2792      3112      3624      4008
  19                        408                       840       1288      1736      2152      2600      2984      3496      3880      4264
  20                        440                       904       1384      1864      2344      2792      3240      3752      4136      4584
  21                        488                       1000      1480      1992      2472      2984      3496      4008      4584      4968
  22                        520                       1064      1608      2152      2664      3240      3752      4264      4776      5352
  23                        552                       1128      1736      2280      2856      3496      4008      4584      5160      5736
  24                        584                       1192      1800      2408      2984      3624      4264      4968      5544      5992
  25                        616                       1256      1864      2536      3112      3752      4392      5160      5736      6200
  26                        712                       1480      2216      2984      3752      4392      5160      5992      6712      7480
  26A                       632                       1288      1928      2600      3240      3880      4584      5160      5992      6456
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            11                        12        13        14        15        16        17        18        19        20
  0                         288                       328       344       376       392       424       456       488       504       536
  1                         376                       424       456       488       520       568       600       632       680       712
  2                         472                       520       568       616       648       696       744       776       840       872
  3                         616                       680       744       808       872       904       968       1032      1096      1160
  4                         776                       840       904       1000      1064      1128      1192      1288      1352      1416
  5                         968                       1032      1128      1224      1320      1384      1480      1544      1672      1736
  6                         1128                      1224      1352      1480      1544      1672      1736      1864      1992      2088
  7                         1320                      1480      1608      1672      1800      1928      2088      2216      2344      2472
  8                         1544                      1672      1800      1928      2088      2216      2344      2536      2664      2792
  9                         1736                      1864      2024      2216      2344      2536      2664      2856      2984      3112
  10                        1928                      2088      2280      2472      2664      2792      2984      3112      3368      3496
  11                        2216                      2408      2600      2792      2984      3240      3496      3624      3880      4008
  12                        2472                      2728      2984      3240      3368      3624      3880      4136      4392      4584
  13                        2856                      3112      3368      3624      3880      4136      4392      4584      4968      5160
  14                        3112                      3496      3752      4008      4264      4584      4968      5160      5544      5736
  15                        3368                      3624      4008      4264      4584      4968      5160      5544      5736      6200
  16                        3624                      3880      4264      4584      4968      5160      5544      5992      6200      6456
  17                        4008                      4392      4776      5160      5352      5736      6200      6456      6712      7224
  18                        4392                      4776      5160      5544      5992      6200      6712      7224      7480      7992
  19                        4776                      5160      5544      5992      6456      6968      7224      7736      8248      8504
  20                        5160                      5544      5992      6456      6968      7480      7992      8248      8760      9144
  21                        5544                      5992      6456      6968      7480      7992      8504      9144      9528      9912
  22                        5992                      6456      6968      7480      7992      8504      9144      9528      10296     10680
  23                        6200                      6968      7480      7992      8504      9144      9912      10296     11064     11448
  24                        6712                      7224      7992      8504      9144      9912      10296     11064     11448     12216
  25                        6968                      7480      8248      8760      9528      10296     10680     11448     12216     12576
  26                        8248                      8760      9528      10296     11064     11832     12576     13536     14112     14688
  26A                       7224                      7736      8504      9144      9912      10296     11064     11832     12576     12960
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            21                        22        23        24        25        26        27        28        29        30
  0                         568                       600       616       648       680       712       744       776       776       808
  1                         744                       776       808       872       904       936       968       1000      1032      1064
  2                         936                       968       1000      1064      1096      1160      1192      1256      1288      1320
  3                         1224                      1256      1320      1384      1416      1480      1544      1608      1672      1736
  4                         1480                      1544      1608      1736      1800      1864      1928      1992      2088      2152
  5                         1864                      1928      2024      2088      2216      2280      2344      2472      2536      2664
  6                         2216                      2280      2408      2472      2600      2728      2792      2984      2984      3112
  7                         2536                      2664      2792      2984      3112      3240      3368      3368      3496      3624
  8                         2984                      3112      3240      3368      3496      3624      3752      3880      4008      4264
  9                         3368                      3496      3624      3752      4008      4136      4264      4392      4584      4776
  10                        3752                      3880      4008      4264      4392      4584      4776      4968      5160      5352
  11                        4264                      4392      4584      4776      4968      5352      5544      5736      5992      5992
  12                        4776                      4968      5352      5544      5736      5992      6200      6456      6712      6712
  13                        5352                      5736      5992      6200      6456      6712      6968      7224      7480      7736
  14                        5992                      6200      6456      6968      7224      7480      7736      7992      8248      8504
  15                        6456                      6712      6968      7224      7736      7992      8248      8504      8760      9144
  16                        6712                      7224      7480      7736      7992      8504      8760      9144      9528      9912
  17                        7480                      7992      8248      8760      9144      9528      9912      10296     10296     10680
  18                        8248                      8760      9144      9528      9912      10296     10680     11064     11448     11832
  19                        9144                      9528      9912      10296     10680     11064     11448     12216     12576     12960
  20                        9912                      10296     10680     11064     11448     12216     12576     12960     13536     14112
  21                        10680                     11064     11448     12216     12576     12960     13536     14112     14688     15264
  22                        11448                     11832     12576     12960     13536     14112     14688     15264     15840     16416
  23                        12216                     12576     12960     13536     14112     14688     15264     15840     16416     16992
  24                        12960                     13536     14112     14688     15264     15840     16416     16992     17568     18336
  25                        13536                     14112     14688     15264     15840     16416     16992     17568     18336     19080
  26                        15264                     16416     16992     17568     18336     19080     19848     20616     21384     22152
  26A                       13536                     14112     15264     15840     16416     16992     17568     18336     19080     19848
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            31                        32        33        34        35        36        37        38        39        40
  0                         840                       872       904       936       968       1000      1032      1032      1064      1096
  1                         1128                      1160      1192      1224      1256      1288      1352      1384      1416      1416
  2                         1384                      1416      1480      1544      1544      1608      1672      1672      1736      1800
  3                         1800                      1864      1928      1992      2024      2088      2152      2216      2280      2344
  4                         2216                      2280      2344      2408      2472      2600      2664      2728      2792      2856
  5                         2728                      2792      2856      2984      3112      3112      3240      3368      3496      3496
  6                         3240                      3368      3496      3496      3624      3752      3880      4008      4136      4136
  7                         3752                      3880      4008      4136      4264      4392      4584      4584      4776      4968
  8                         4392                      4584      4584      4776      4968      4968      5160      5352      5544      5544
  9                         4968                      5160      5160      5352      5544      5736      5736      5992      6200      6200
  10                        5544                      5736      5736      5992      6200      6200      6456      6712      6712      6968
  11                        6200                      6456      6712      6968      6968      7224      7480      7736      7736      7992
  12                        6968                      7224      7480      7736      7992      8248      8504      8760      8760      9144
  13                        7992                      8248      8504      8760      9144      9144      9528      9912      9912      10296
  14                        8760                      9144      9528      9912      9912      10296     10680     11064     11064     11448
  15                        9528                      9912      10296     10296     10680     11064     11448     11832     11832     12216
  16                        9912                      10296     10680     11064     11448     11832     12216     12216     12576     12960
  17                        11064                     11448     11832     12216     12576     12960     13536     13536     14112     14688
  18                        12216                     12576     12960     13536     14112     14112     14688     15264     15264     15840
  19                        13536                     13536     14112     14688     15264     15264     15840     16416     16992     16992
  20                        14688                     14688     15264     15840     16416     16992     16992     17568     18336     18336
  21                        15840                     15840     16416     16992     17568     18336     18336     19080     19848     19848
  22                        16992                     16992     17568     18336     19080     19080     19848     20616     21384     21384
  23                        17568                     18336     19080     19848     19848     20616     21384     22152     22152     22920
  24                        19080                     19848     19848     20616     21384     22152     22920     22920     23688     24496
  25                        19848                     20616     20616     21384     22152     22920     23688     24496     24496     25456
  26                        22920                     23688     24496     25456     25456     26416     27376     28336     29296     29296
  26A                       20616                     20616     21384     22152     22920     23688     24496     24496     25456     26416
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            41                        42        43        44        45        46        47        48        49        50
  0                         1128                      1160      1192      1224      1256      1256      1288      1320      1352      1384
  1                         1480                      1544      1544      1608      1608      1672      1736      1736      1800      1800
  2                         1800                      1864      1928      1992      2024      2088      2088      2152      2216      2216
  3                         2408                      2472      2536      2536      2600      2664      2728      2792      2856      2856
  4                         2984                      2984      3112      3112      3240      3240      3368      3496      3496      3624
  5                         3624                      3752      3752      3880      4008      4008      4136      4264      4392      4392
  6                         4264                      4392      4584      4584      4776      4776      4968      4968      5160      5160
  7                         4968                      5160      5352      5352      5544      5736      5736      5992      5992      6200
  8                         5736                      5992      5992      6200      6200      6456      6456      6712      6968      6968
  9                         6456                      6712      6712      6968      6968      7224      7480      7480      7736      7992
  10                        7224                      7480      7480      7736      7992      7992      8248      8504      8504      8760
  11                        8248                      8504      8760      8760      9144      9144      9528      9528      9912      9912
  12                        9528                      9528      9912      9912      10296     10680     10680     11064     11064     11448
  13                        10680                     10680     11064     11448     11448     11832     12216     12216     12576     12960
  14                        11832                     12216     12216     12576     12960     12960     13536     13536     14112     14112
  15                        12576                     12960     12960     13536     13536     14112     14688     14688     15264     15264
  16                        13536                     13536     14112     14112     14688     14688     15264     15840     15840     16416
  17                        14688                     15264     15264     15840     16416     16416     16992     17568     17568     18336
  18                        16416                     16416     16992     17568     17568     18336     18336     19080     19080     19848
  19                        17568                     18336     18336     19080     19080     19848     20616     20616     21384     21384
  20                        19080                     19848     19848     20616     20616     21384     22152     22152     22920     22920
  21                        20616                     21384     21384     22152     22920     22920     23688     24496     24496     25456
  22                        22152                     22920     22920     23688     24496     24496     25456     25456     26416     27376
  23                        23688                     24496     24496     25456     25456     26416     27376     27376     28336     28336
  24                        25456                     25456     26416     26416     27376     28336     28336     29296     29296     30576
  25                        26416                     26416     27376     28336     28336     29296     29296     30576     31704     31704
  26                        30576                     30576     31704     32856     32856     34008     35160     35160     36696     36696
  26A                       26416                     27376     27376     29296     29296     29296     30576     30576     31704     32856
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            51                        52        53        54        55        56        57        58        59        60
  0                         1416                      1416      1480      1480      1544      1544      1608      1608      1608      1672
  1                         1864                      1864      1928      1992      1992      2024      2088      2088      2152      2152
  2                         2280                      2344      2344      2408      2472      2536      2536      2600      2664      2664
  3                         2984                      2984      3112      3112      3240      3240      3368      3368      3496      3496
  4                         3624                      3752      3752      3880      4008      4008      4136      4136      4264      4264
  5                         4584                      4584      4776      4776      4776      4968      4968      5160      5160      5352
  6                         5352                      5352      5544      5736      5736      5992      5992      5992      6200      6200
  7                         6200                      6456      6456      6712      6712      6712      6968      6968      7224      7224
  8                         7224                      7224      7480      7480      7736      7736      7992      7992      8248      8504
  9                         7992                      8248      8248      8504      8760      8760      9144      9144      9144      9528
  10                        9144                      9144      9144      9528      9528      9912      9912      10296     10296     10680
  11                        10296                     10680     10680     11064     11064     11448     11448     11832     11832     12216
  12                        11832                     11832     12216     12216     12576     12576     12960     12960     13536     13536
  13                        12960                     13536     13536     14112     14112     14688     14688     14688     15264     15264
  14                        14688                     14688     15264     15264     15840     15840     16416     16416     16992     16992
  15                        15840                     15840     16416     16416     16992     16992     17568     17568     18336     18336
  16                        16416                     16992     16992     17568     17568     18336     18336     19080     19080     19848
  17                        18336                     19080     19080     19848     19848     20616     20616     20616     21384     21384
  18                        19848                     20616     21384     21384     22152     22152     22920     22920     23688     23688
  19                        22152                     22152     22920     22920     23688     24496     24496     25456     25456     25456
  20                        23688                     24496     24496     25456     25456     26416     26416     27376     27376     28336
  21                        25456                     26416     26416     27376     27376     28336     28336     29296     29296     30576
  22                        27376                     28336     28336     29296     29296     30576     30576     31704     31704     32856
  23                        29296                     29296     30576     30576     31704     31704     32856     32856     34008     34008
  24                        31704                     31704     32856     32856     34008     34008     35160     35160     36696     36696
  25                        32856                     32856     34008     34008     35160     35160     36696     36696     37888     37888
  26                        37888                     37888     39232     40576     40576     40576     42368     42368     43816     43816
  26A                       32856                     34008     34008     35160     36696     36696     36696     37888     37888     39232
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            61                        62        63        64        65        66        67        68        69        70
  0                         1672                      1736      1736      1800      1800      1800      1864      1864      1928      1928
  1                         2216                      2280      2280      2344      2344      2408      2472      2472      2536      2536
  2                         2728                      2792      2856      2856      2856      2984      2984      3112      3112      3112
  3                         3624                      3624      3624      3752      3752      3880      3880      4008      4008      4136
  4                         4392                      4392      4584      4584      4584      4776      4776      4968      4968      4968
  5                         5352                      5544      5544      5736      5736      5736      5992      5992      5992      6200
  6                         6456                      6456      6456      6712      6712      6968      6968      6968      7224      7224
  7                         7480                      7480      7736      7736      7992      7992      8248      8248      8504      8504
  8                         8504                      8760      8760      9144      9144      9144      9528      9528      9528      9912
  9                         9528                      9912      9912      10296     10296     10296     10680     10680     11064     11064
  10                        10680                     11064     11064     11448     11448     11448     11832     11832     12216     12216
  11                        12216                     12576     12576     12960     12960     13536     13536     13536     14112     14112
  12                        14112                     14112     14112     14688     14688     15264     15264     15264     15840     15840
  13                        15840                     15840     16416     16416     16992     16992     16992     17568     17568     18336
  14                        17568                     17568     18336     18336     18336     19080     19080     19848     19848     19848
  15                        18336                     19080     19080     19848     19848     20616     20616     20616     21384     21384
  16                        19848                     19848     20616     20616     21384     21384     22152     22152     22152     22920
  17                        22152                     22152     22920     22920     23688     23688     24496     24496     24496     25456
  18                        24496                     24496     24496     25456     25456     26416     26416     27376     27376     27376
  19                        26416                     26416     27376     27376     28336     28336     29296     29296     29296     30576
  20                        28336                     29296     29296     29296     30576     30576     31704     31704     31704     32856
  21                        30576                     31704     31704     31704     32856     32856     34008     34008     35160     35160
  22                        32856                     34008     34008     34008     35160     35160     36696     36696     36696     37888
  23                        35160                     35160     36696     36696     37888     37888     37888     39232     39232     40576
  24                        36696                     37888     37888     39232     39232     40576     40576     42368     42368     42368
  25                        39232                     39232     40576     40576     40576     42368     42368     43816     43816     43816
  26                        45352                     45352     46888     46888     48936     48936     48936     51024     51024     52752
  26A                       40576                     40576     40576     40576     42368     42368     43816     43816     45352     45352
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            71                        72        73        74        75        76        77        78        79        80
  0                         1992                      1992      2024      2088      2088      2088      2152      2152      2216      2216
  1                         2600                      2600      2664      2728      2728      2792      2792      2856      2856      2856
  2                         3240                      3240      3240      3368      3368      3368      3496      3496      3496      3624
  3                         4136                      4264      4264      4392      4392      4392      4584      4584      4584      4776
  4                         5160                      5160      5160      5352      5352      5544      5544      5544      5736      5736
  5                         6200                      6200      6456      6456      6712      6712      6712      6968      6968      6968
  6                         7480                      7480      7736      7736      7736      7992      7992      8248      8248      8248
  7                         8760                      8760      8760      9144      9144      9144      9528      9528      9528      9912
  8                         9912                      9912      10296     10296     10680     10680     10680     11064     11064     11064
  9                         11064                     11448     11448     11832     11832     11832     12216     12216     12576     12576
  10                        12576                     12576     12960     12960     12960     13536     13536     13536     14112     14112
  11                        14112                     14688     14688     14688     15264     15264     15840     15840     15840     16416
  12                        16416                     16416     16416     16992     16992     17568     17568     17568     18336     18336
  13                        18336                     18336     19080     19080     19080     19848     19848     19848     20616     20616
  14                        20616                     20616     20616     21384     21384     22152     22152     22152     22920     22920
  15                        22152                     22152     22152     22920     22920     23688     23688     23688     24496     24496
  16                        22920                     23688     23688     24496     24496     24496     25456     25456     25456     26416
  17                        25456                     26416     26416     26416     27376     27376     27376     28336     28336     29296
  18                        28336                     28336     29296     29296     29296     30576     30576     30576     31704     31704
  19                        30576                     30576     31704     31704     32856     32856     32856     34008     34008     34008
  20                        32856                     34008     34008     34008     35160     35160     35160     36696     36696     36696
  21                        35160                     36696     36696     36696     37888     37888     39232     39232     39232     40576
  22                        37888                     39232     39232     40576     40576     40576     42368     42368     42368     43816
  23                        40576                     40576     42368     42368     43816     43816     43816     45352     45352     45352
  24                        43816                     43816     45352     45352     45352     46888     46888     46888     48936     48936
  25                        45352                     45352     46888     46888     46888     48936     48936     48936     51024     51024
  26                        52752                     52752     55056     55056     55056     55056     57336     57336     57336     59256
  26A                       45352                     46888     46888     48936     48936     48936     51024     51024     51024     52752
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            81                        82        83        84        85        86        87        88        89        90
  0                         2280                      2280      2280      2344      2344      2408      2408      2472      2472      2536
  1                         2984                      2984      2984      3112      3112      3112      3240      3240      3240      3240
  2                         3624                      3624      3752      3752      3880      3880      3880      4008      4008      4008
  3                         4776                      4776      4776      4968      4968      4968      5160      5160      5160      5352
  4                         5736                      5992      5992      5992      5992      6200      6200      6200      6456      6456
  5                         7224                      7224      7224      7480      7480      7480      7736      7736      7736      7992
  6                         8504                      8504      8760      8760      8760      9144      9144      9144      9144      9528
  7                         9912                      9912      10296     10296     10296     10680     10680     10680     11064     11064
  8                         11448                     11448     11448     11832     11832     12216     12216     12216     12576     12576
  9                         12960                     12960     12960     13536     13536     13536     13536     14112     14112     14112
  10                        14112                     14688     14688     14688     14688     15264     15264     15264     15840     15840
  11                        16416                     16416     16992     16992     16992     17568     17568     17568     18336     18336
  12                        18336                     19080     19080     19080     19080     19848     19848     19848     20616     20616
  13                        20616                     21384     21384     21384     22152     22152     22152     22920     22920     22920
  14                        22920                     23688     23688     24496     24496     24496     25456     25456     25456     25456
  15                        24496                     25456     25456     25456     26416     26416     26416     27376     27376     27376
  16                        26416                     26416     27376     27376     27376     28336     28336     28336     29296     29296
  17                        29296                     29296     30576     30576     30576     30576     31704     31704     31704     32856
  18                        31704                     32856     32856     32856     34008     34008     34008     35160     35160     35160
  19                        35160                     35160     35160     36696     36696     36696     37888     37888     37888     39232
  20                        37888                     37888     39232     39232     39232     40576     40576     40576     42368     42368
  21                        40576                     40576     42368     42368     42368     43816     43816     43816     45352     45352
  22                        43816                     43816     45352     45352     45352     46888     46888     46888     48936     48936
  23                        46888                     46888     46888     48936     48936     48936     51024     51024     51024     51024
  24                        48936                     51024     51024     51024     52752     52752     52752     52752     55056     55056
  25                        51024                     52752     52752     52752     55056     55056     55056     55056     57336     57336
  26                        59256                     59256     61664     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776     66592     66592
  26A                       52752                     52752     55056     55056     55056     55056     57336     57336     57336     59256
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            91                        92        93        94        95        96        97        98        99        100
  0                         2536                      2536      2600      2600      2664      2664      2728      2728      2728      2792
  1                         3368                      3368      3368      3496      3496      3496      3496      3624      3624      3624
  2                         4136                      4136      4136      4264      4264      4264      4392      4392      4392      4584
  3                         5352                      5352      5352      5544      5544      5544      5736      5736      5736      5736
  4                         6456                      6456      6712      6712      6712      6968      6968      6968      6968      7224
  5                         7992                      7992      8248      8248      8248      8504      8504      8760      8760      8760
  6                         9528                      9528      9528      9912      9912      9912      10296     10296     10296     10296
  7                         11064                     11448     11448     11448     11448     11832     11832     11832     12216     12216
  8                         12576                     12960     12960     12960     13536     13536     13536     13536     14112     14112
  9                         14112                     14688     14688     14688     15264     15264     15264     15264     15840     15840
  10                        15840                     16416     16416     16416     16992     16992     16992     16992     17568     17568
  11                        18336                     18336     19080     19080     19080     19080     19848     19848     19848     19848
  12                        20616                     21384     21384     21384     21384     22152     22152     22152     22920     22920
  13                        23688                     23688     23688     24496     24496     24496     25456     25456     25456     25456
  14                        26416                     26416     26416     27376     27376     27376     28336     28336     28336     28336
  15                        28336                     28336     28336     29296     29296     29296     29296     30576     30576     30576
  16                        29296                     30576     30576     30576     30576     31704     31704     31704     31704     32856
  17                        32856                     32856     34008     34008     34008     35160     35160     35160     35160     36696
  18                        36696                     36696     36696     37888     37888     37888     37888     39232     39232     39232
  19                        39232                     39232     40576     40576     40576     40576     42368     42368     42368     43816
  20                        42368                     42368     43816     43816     43816     45352     45352     45352     46888     46888
  21                        45352                     46888     46888     46888     46888     48936     48936     48936     48936     51024
  22                        48936                     48936     51024     51024     51024     51024     52752     52752     52752     55056
  23                        52752                     52752     52752     55056     55056     55056     55056     57336     57336     57336
  24                        55056                     57336     57336     57336     57336     59256     59256     59256     61664     61664
  25                        57336                     59256     59256     59256     61664     61664     61664     61664     63776     63776
  26                        66592                     68808     68808     68808     71112     71112     71112     73712     73712     75376
  26A                       59256                     59256     59256     61664     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776     66592
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            101                       102       103       104       105       106       107       108       109       110
  0                         2792                      2856      2856      2856      2984      2984      2984      2984      2984      3112
  1                         3752                      3752      3752      3752      3880      3880      3880      4008      4008      4008
  2                         4584                      4584      4584      4584      4776      4776      4776      4776      4968      4968
  3                         5992                      5992      5992      5992      6200      6200      6200      6200      6456      6456
  4                         7224                      7224      7480      7480      7480      7480      7736      7736      7736      7992
  5                         8760                      9144      9144      9144      9144      9528      9528      9528      9528      9528
  6                         10680                     10680     10680     10680     11064     11064     11064     11448     11448     11448
  7                         12216                     12576     12576     12576     12960     12960     12960     12960     13536     13536
  8                         14112                     14112     14688     14688     14688     14688     15264     15264     15264     15264
  9                         15840                     16416     16416     16416     16416     16992     16992     16992     16992     17568
  10                        17568                     18336     18336     18336     18336     18336     19080     19080     19080     19080
  11                        20616                     20616     20616     21384     21384     21384     21384     22152     22152     22152
  12                        22920                     23688     23688     23688     23688     24496     24496     24496     24496     25456
  13                        26416                     26416     26416     26416     27376     27376     27376     27376     28336     28336
  14                        29296                     29296     29296     29296     30576     30576     30576     30576     31704     31704
  15                        30576                     31704     31704     31704     31704     32856     32856     32856     34008     34008
  16                        32856                     32856     34008     34008     34008     34008     35160     35160     35160     35160
  17                        36696                     36696     36696     37888     37888     37888     39232     39232     39232     39232
  18                        40576                     40576     40576     40576     42368     42368     42368     42368     43816     43816
  19                        43816                     43816     43816     45352     45352     45352     46888     46888     46888     46888
  20                        46888                     46888     48936     48936     48936     48936     48936     51024     51024     51024
  21                        51024                     51024     51024     52752     52752     52752     52752     55056     55056     55056
  22                        55056                     55056     55056     57336     57336     57336     57336     59256     59256     59256
  23                        57336                     59256     59256     59256     59256     61664     61664     61664     61664     63776
  24                        61664                     61664     63776     63776     63776     63776     66592     66592     66592     66592
  25                        63776                     63776     66592     66592     66592     66592     68808     68808     68808     71112
  26                        75376                     75376     75376     75376     75376     75376     75376     75376     75376     75376
  26A                       66592                     66592     66592     68808     68808     68808     71112     71112     71112     71112
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **1**                     **2**     **3**     **4**     **5**     **6**     **7**     **8**     **9**     **10**
  27                        648                       1320      1992      2664      3368      4008      4584      5352      5992      6712
  28                        680                       1384      2088      2792      3496      4264      4968      5544      6200      6968
  29                        712                       1480      2216      2984      3752      4392      5160      5992      6712      7480
  30                        776                       1544      2344      3112      3880      4776      5544      6200      6968      7736
  31                        808                       1608      2472      3240      4136      4968      5736      6456      7480      8248
  32                        840                       1672      2536      3368      4264      5160      5992      6712      7736      8504
  32A                       904                       1864      2792      3752      4584      5544      6456      7480      8248      9144
  33                        968                       1992      2984      4008      4968      5992      6968      7992      8760      9912
  33A                       840                       1736      2600      3496      4392      5160      5992      6968      7736      8760
  33B                       968                       1992      2984      4008      4968      5992      6968      7992      8760      9912
  34                        1032                      2088      3112      4264      5160      6200      7224      8504      9528      10296
  34A                       1064                      2088      3112      4264      5352      6456      7480      8504      9528      10680
  35                        1096                      2216      3240      4392      5544      6712      7736      8760      9912      11064
  36                        1160                      2280      3496      4584      5736      6968      7992      9144      10296     11448
  37A                       1192                      2408      3624      4776      5992      7224      8504      9528      10680     11832
  37                        1224                      2472      3752      4968      6200      7480      8760      9912      11064     12384
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **11**                    **12**    **13**    **14**    **15**    **16**    **17**    **18**    **19**    **20**
  27                        7224                      7992      8504      9144      9912      10680     11448     11832     12576     12960
  28                        7736                      8504      9144      9912      10680     11064     11832     12576     13536     14112
  29                        8248                      8760      9528      10296     11064     11832     12576     13536     14112     14688
  30                        8504                      9528      10296     11064     11832     12576     13536     14112     14688     15840
  31                        9144                      9912      10680     11448     12216     12960     14112     14688     15840     16416
  32                        9528                      10296     11064     11832     12960     13536     14688     15264     16416     16992
  32A                       10296                     11064     12216     12960     14112     14688     15840     16416     17568     18336
  33                        10680                     11832     12960     13536     14688     15840     16992     17568     19080     19848
  33A                       9528                      10296     11448     12216     12960     14112     14688     15840     16416     17568
  33B                       10680                     11832     12960     13536     14688     15840     16992     17568     19080     19848
  34                        11448                     12576     13536     14688     15840     16992     17568     19080     19848     20616
  34A                       11448                     12576     13536     14688     15840     16992     17568     19080     19848     21384
  35                        12216                     12960     14112     15264     16416     17568     18336     19848     20616     22152
  36                        12576                     13536     14688     15840     16992     18336     19848     20616     22152     22920
  37A                       12960                     14112     15840     16992     18336     19080     20616     21384     22920     23688
  37                        13536                     14688     15840     17568     18336     19848     21384     22152     23688     24496
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **21**                    **22**    **23**    **24**    **25**    **26**    **27**    **28**    **29**    **30**
  27                        14112                     14688     15264     15840     16416     16992     17568     18336     19080     19848
  28                        14688                     15264     16416     16992     17568     18336     19080     19848     20616     21384
  29                        15840                     16416     16992     17568     18336     19080     19848     20616     21384     22152
  30                        16416                     16992     18336     19080     19848     20616     21384     22152     22920     23688
  31                        17568                     18336     19080     19848     20616     21384     22152     22920     23688     24496
  32                        17568                     19080     19848     20616     21384     22152     22920     23688     24496     25456
  32A                       19848                     20616     21384     22152     22920     24496     25456     26416     27376     27376
  33                        20616                     21384     22920     23688     24496     25456     26416     27376     28336     29296
  33A                       18336                     19080     19848     20616     22152     22920     23688     24496     25456     26416
  33B                       20616                     21384     22920     23688     24496     25456     26416     27376     28336     29296
  34                        22152                     22920     24496     25456     26416     27376     28336     29296     30576     31704
  34A                       22152                     22920     24496     25456     26416     27376     28336     29296     30576     31704
  35                        22920                     24496     25456     26416     27376     28336     29296     30576     31704     32856
  36                        24496                     25456     26416     27376     28336     29296     30576     31704     32856     34008
  37A                       25456                     26416     27376     28336     30576     31704     32856     34008     35160     36696
  37                        26416                     27376     28336     29296     30576     31704     32856     35160     35160     36696
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **31**                    **32**    **33**    **34**    **35**    **36**    **37**    **38**    **39**    **40**
  27                        20616                     21384     22152     22920     22920     23688     24496     25456     25456     26416
  28                        22152                     22152     22920     23688     24496     25456     26416     26416     27376     28336
  29                        22920                     23688     24496     25456     26416     26416     27376     28336     29296     29296
  30                        24496                     25456     25456     26416     27376     28336     29296     29296     30576     31704
  31                        25456                     26416     27376     28336     29296     29296     30576     31704     31704     32856
  32                        26416                     27376     28336     29296     29296     30576     31704     32856     32856     34008
  32A                       28336                     29296     30576     31704     32856     32856     34008     35160     36696     36696
  33                        30576                     31704     32856     34008     35160     35160     36696     37888     39232     39232
  33A                       27376                     27376     29296     29296     30576     30576     31704     32856     34008     35160
  33B                       30576                     31704     32856     34008     35160     35160     36696     37888     39232     39232
  34                        32856                     34008     35160     35160     36696     37888     39232     39232     40576     42368
  34A                       32856                     34008     35160     35160     36696     37888     39232     40576     40576     42368
  35                        34008                     35160     36696     37888     37888     39232     40576     42368     42368     43816
  36                        35160                     36696     37888     39232     40576     40576     42368     43816     45352     45352
  37A                       36696                     37888     39232     40576     42368     43816     43816     45352     46888     48936
  37                        37888                     39232     40576     42368     43816     43816     45352     46888     48936     48936
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **41**                    **42**    **43**    **44**    **45**    **46**    **47**    **48**    **49**    **50**
  27                        27376                     27376     28336     29296     29296     30576     31704     31704     32856     32856
  28                        29296                     29296     30576     30576     31704     32856     32856     34008     34008     35160
  29                        30576                     31704     31704     32856     34008     34008     35160     35160     36696     36696
  30                        31704                     32856     34008     34008     35160     36696     36696     37888     37888     39232
  31                        34008                     35160     35160     36696     36696     37888     39232     39232     40576     40576
  32                        35160                     35160     36696     37888     37888     39232     40576     40576     42368     42368
  32A                       37888                     39232     40576     40576     42368     42368     43816     43816     45352     46888
  33                        40576                     40576     42368     43816     43816     45352     46888     46888     48936     48936
  33A                       35160                     36696     36696     37888     39232     40576     40576     40576     42368     43816
  33B                       40576                     40576     42368     43816     43816     45352     46888     46888     48936     48936
  34                        42368                     43816     45352     46888     46888     48936     48936     51024     51024     52752
  34A                       43816                     43816     45352     46888     46888     48936     48936     51024     51024     52752
  35                        45352                     46888     46888     48936     48936     51024     51024     52752     52752     55056
  36                        46888                     48936     48936     51024     51024     52752     55056     55056     57336     57336
  37A                       48936                     51024     51024     52752     55056     55056     57336     57336     59256     59256
  37                        51024                     52752     52752     55056     55056     57336     57336     59256     61664     61664
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **51**                    **52**    **53**    **54**    **55**    **56**    **57**    **58**    **59**    **60**
  27                        34008                     34008     35160     35160     36696     36696     37888     37888     39232     39232
  28                        35160                     36696     36696     37888     39232     39232     40576     40576     42368     42368
  29                        37888                     39232     39232     40576     40576     42368     42368     43816     43816     45352
  30                        40576                     40576     42368     42368     43816     43816     45352     45352     46888     46888
  31                        42368                     42368     43816     45352     45352     46888     46888     46888     48936     48936
  32                        43816                     43816     45352     46888     46888     46888     48936     48936     51024     51024
  32A                       46888                     48936     48936     51024     51024     52752     52752     52752     55056     55056
  33                        51024                     51024     52752     52752     55056     55056     57336     57336     59256     59256
  33A                       43816                     45352     45352     46888     48936     48936     48936     51024     51024     52752
  33B                       51024                     51024     52752     52752     55056     55056     57336     57336     59256     59256
  34                        52752                     55056     55056     57336     57336     59256     59256     61664     61664     63776
  34A                       52752                     55056     55056     57336     57336     59256     59256     61664     61664     63776
  35                        55056                     57336     57336     59256     59256     61664     61664     63776     63776     66592
  36                        59256                     59256     61664     61664     63776     63776     66592     66592     68808     68808
  37A                       61664                     61664     63776     63776     66592     66592     68808     68808     71112     71112
  37                        63776                     63776     66592     66592     68808     68808     71112     71112     73712     75376
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **61**                    **62**    **63**    **64**    **65**    **66**    **67**    **68**    **69**    **70**
  27                        40576                     40576     42368     42368     43816     43816     43816     45352     45352     46888
  28                        42368                     43816     43816     45352     45352     46888     46888     46888     48936     48936
  29                        45352                     45352     46888     46888     48936     48936     48936     51024     51024     52752
  30                        46888                     48936     48936     51024     51024     51024     52752     52752     55056     55056
  31                        51024                     51024     52752     52752     52752     55056     55056     55056     57336     57336
  32                        52752                     52752     52752     55056     55056     57336     57336     57336     59256     59256
  32A                       57336                     57336     59256     59256     59256     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776
  33                        59256                     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776     66592     66592     68808     68808
  33A                       52752                     55056     55056     55056     57336     57336     57336     59256     59256     61664
  33B                       59256                     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776     66592     66592     68808     68808
  34                        63776                     63776     66592     66592     68808     68808     71112     71112     71112     73712
  34A                       63776                     66592     66592     66592     68808     68808     71112     71112     73712     73712
  35                        66592                     68808     68808     71112     71112     73712     73712     75376     76208     76208
  36                        71112                     71112     73712     73712     75376     76208     76208     78704     78704     81176
  37A                       73712                     73712     75376     76208     78704     78704     81176     81176     81176     84760
  37                        76208                     76208     78704     78704     81176     81176     81176     84760     84760     87936
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **71**                    **72**    **73**    **74**    **75**    **76**    **77**    **78**    **79**    **80**
  27                        46888                     46888     48936     48936     48936     51024     51024     51024     52752     52752
  28                        48936                     51024     51024     52752     52752     52752     55056     55056     55056     57336
  29                        52752                     52752     55056     55056     55056     57336     57336     57336     59256     59256
  30                        55056                     57336     57336     57336     59256     59256     59256     61664     61664     63776
  31                        59256                     59256     59256     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776     66592     66592
  32                        61664                     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776     66592     66592     66592     68808
  32A                       66592                     66592     68808     68808     68808     71112     71112     73712     73712     73712
  33                        71112                     71112     71112     73712     75376     76208     76208     76208     78704     78704
  33A                       61664                     61664     63776     63776     66592     66592     66592     68808     68808     68808
  33B                       71112                     71112     71112     73712     75376     76208     76208     76208     78704     78704
  34                        75376                     76208     76208     78704     78704     78704     81176     81176     81176     84760
  34A                       75376                     76208     76208     78704     78704     81176     81176     81176     84760     84760
  35                        78704                     78704     81176     81176     81176     84760     84760     84760     87936     87936
  36                        81176                     81176     84760     84760     84760     87936     87936     90816     90816     90816
  37A                       84760                     84760     87936     87936     90816     90816     90816     93800     93800     97896
  37                        87936                     87936     90816     90816     93800     93800     93800     97896     97896     97896
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **81**                    **82**    **83**    **84**    **85**    **86**    **87**    **88**    **89**    **90**
  27                        52752                     55056     55056     55056     57336     57336     57336     59256     59256     59256
  28                        57336                     57336     59256     59256     59256     61664     61664     61664     61664     63776
  29                        59256                     61664     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776     66592     66592     66592
  30                        63776                     63776     63776     66592     66592     66592     68808     68808     68808     71112
  31                        66592                     68808     68808     68808     71112     71112     71112     73712     73712     73712
  32                        68808                     71112     71112     71112     73712     73712     73712     75376     76208     76208
  32A                       75376                     76208     76208     78704     78704     78704     81176     81176     81176     84760
  33                        81176                     81176     81176     81176     84760     84760     84760     87936     87936     87936
  33A                       71112                     71112     71112     73712     75376     75376     76208     76208     78704     78704
  33B                       81176                     81176     81176     81176     84760     84760     84760     87936     87936     87936
  34                        84760                     84760     87936     87936     87936     90816     90816     93800     93800     93800
  34A                       84760                     87936     87936     87936     90816     90816     90816     93800     93800     93800
  35                        87936                     90816     90816     93800     93800     93800     93800     97896     97896     97896
  36                        93800                     93800     93800     97896     97896     97896     101840    101840    101840    101840
  37A                       97896                     97896     97896     101840    101840    101840    105528    105528    105528    107832
  37                        101840                    101840    101840    105528    105528    107832    107832    110136    110136    112608
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **91**                    **92**    **93**    **94**    **95**    **96**    **97**    **98**    **99**    **100**
  27                        59256                     61664     61664     61664     63776     63776     63776     63776     66592     66592
  28                        63776                     63776     66592     66592     66592     66592     68808     68808     68808     71112
  29                        66592                     68808     68808     68808     71112     71112     71112     73712     73712     73712
  30                        71112                     71112     73712     73712     75376     75376     76208     76208     78704     78704
  31                        75376                     76208     76208     78704     78704     78704     81176     81176     81176     81176
  32                        78704                     78704     78704     81176     81176     81176     84760     84760     84760     84760
  32A                       84760                     84760     87936     87936     87936     87936     90816     90816     90816     93800
  33                        90816                     90816     90816     93800     93800     93800     93800     97896     97896     97896
  33A                       78704                     81176     81176     81176     81176     84760     84760     84760     84760     87936
  33B                       90816                     90816     90816     93800     93800     93800     93800     97896     97896     100752
  34                        93800                     97896     97896     97896     97896     101840    101840    101840    105528    105528
  34A                       93800                     97896     97896     97896     101840    101840    101840    101840    105528    105528
  35                        97896                     101840    101840    101840    105528    105528    105528    107832    110136    110136
  36                        105528                    105528    107832    107832    110136    110136    112608    112608    115040    115040
  37A                       110136                    110136    112608    112608    115040    115040    117256    117256    119816    119816
  37                        112608                    115040    115040    115040    117256    119816    119816    119816    124464    125808
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                                                   
                            **101**                   **102**   **103**   **104**   **105**   **106**   **107**   **108**   **109**   **110**
  27                        66592                     66592     68808     68808     68808     71112     71112     71112     71112     73712
  28                        71112                     71112     73712     73712     73712     75376     75376     76208     76208     76208
  29                        75376                     76208     76208     76208     78704     78704     78704     81176     81176     81176
  30                        78704                     81176     81176     81176     81176     84760     84760     84760     84760     87936
  31                        84760                     84760     84760     84760     87936     87936     87936     87936     90816     90816
  32                        87936                     87936     87936     87936     90816     90816     90816     93800     93800     93800
  32A                       93800                     93800     93800     97896     97896     97896     97896     101840    101840    101840
  33                        97896                     97896     97896     97896     97896     97896     97896     97896     97896     97896
  33A                       87936                     87936     87936     90816     90816     90816     93800     93800     93800     97896
  33B                       100752                    100752    100752    100752    100752    100752    100752    100752    100752    100752
  34                        105528                    105528    105528    105528    105528    105528    105528    105528    105528    105528
  34A                       105528                    107832    107832    110136    110136    112608    112608    115040    115040    115040
  35                        110136                    110136    112608    115040    115040    115040    117256    119816    119816    119816
  36                        117256                    117256    117256    119816    119816    119816    124464    124464    125808    125808
  37A                       119816                    124464    124464    124464    125808    125808    128496    128496    130392    130392
  37                        125808                    125808    128496    128496    128496    133208    133208    133208    133208    137792

#####  7.1.7.2.2 Transport blocks mapped to two-layer spatial multiplexing

For![](media/image290.wmf), the TBS is given by the
(![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image291.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.1-1.

For![](media/image292.wmf), a baseline TBS\_L1 is taken from the
(![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image293.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.1-1, which is then translated into TBS\_L2 using the mapping
rule shown in Table 7.1.7.2.2-1. The TBS is given by TBS\_L2.

Table 7.1.7.2.2-1: One-layer to two-layer TBS translation table

  TBS\_L1   TBS\_L2   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L2   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L2   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L2
  --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ---------
  1544      3112      3752      7480      10296     20616     28336     57336
  1608      3240      3880      7736      10680     21384     29296     59256
  1672      3368      4008      7992      11064     22152     30576     61664
  1736      3496      4136      8248      11448     22920     31704     63776
  1800      3624      4264      8504      11832     23688     32856     66592
  1864      3752      4392      8760      12216     24496     34008     68808
  1928      3880      4584      9144      12576     25456     35160     71112
  1992      4008      4776      9528      12960     25456     36696     73712
  2024      4008      4968      9912      13536     27376     37888     76208
  2088      4136      5160      10296     14112     28336     39232     78704
  2152      4264      5352      10680     14688     29296     40576     81176
  2216      4392      5544      11064     15264     30576     42368     84760
  2280      4584      5736      11448     15840     31704     43816     87936
  2344      4776      5992      11832     16416     32856     45352     90816
  2408      4776      6200      12576     16992     34008     46888     93800
  2472      4968      6456      12960     17568     35160     48936     97896
  2536      5160      6712      13536     18336     36696     51024     101840
  2600      5160      6968      14112     19080     37888     52752     105528
  2664      5352      7224      14688     19848     39232     55056     110136
  2728      5544      7480      14688     20616     40576     57336     115040
  2792      5544      7736      15264     21384     42368     59256     119816
  2856      5736      7992      15840     22152     43816     61664     124464
  2984      5992      8248      16416     22920     45352     63776     128496
  3112      6200      8504      16992     23688     46888     66592     133208
  3240      6456      8760      17568     24496     48936     68808     137792
  3368      6712      9144      18336     25456     51024     71112     142248
  3496      6968      9528      19080     26416     52752     73712     146856
  3624      7224      9912      19848     27376     55056     75376     149776
  76208     152976    81176     161760    87936     175600    93800     187712
  78704     157432    84760     169544    90816     181656    97896     195816
  100752    201936    101840    203704    105528    211936              
  107832    214176    110136    220296    112608    226416    115040    230104
  117256    236160    119816    239656    124464    248272    125808    251640

##### 7.1.7.2.3 Transport blocks mapped for DCI Format 1C and DCI Format 6-2

The TBS is given by the![](media/image215.wmf)entry of Table
7.1.7.2.3-1. For DCI Format 6-2, ![](media/image294.wmf).

Table 7.1.7.2.3-1: Transport Block Size (TBS) table for DCI format 1C
and DCI Format 6-2

  ------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   0     1     2     3     4     5     6     7      8      9      10     11     12     13     14     15
  TBS                       40    56    72    120   136   144   176   208    224    256    280    296    328    336    392    488
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23     24     25     26     27     28     29     30     31
  TBS                       552   600   632   696   776   840   904   1000   1064   1128   1224   1288   1384   1480   1608   1736
  ------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------

#####  7.1.7.2.4 Transport blocks mapped to three-layer spatial multiplexing

For ![](media/image295.wmf), the TBS is given by the
(![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image296.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.1-1.

For ![](media/image297.wmf), a baseline TBS\_L1 is taken from the
(![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image293.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.1-1, which is then translated into TBS\_L3 using the mapping
rule shown in Table 7.1.7.2.4-1. The TBS is given by TBS\_L3.

Table 7.1.7.2.4-1: One-layer to three-layer TBS translation table

  --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ---------
  TBS\_L1   TBS\_L3   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L3   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L3   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L3
  1032      3112      2664      7992      8248      24496     26416     78704
  1064      3240      2728      8248      8504      25456     27376     81176
  1096      3240      2792      8248      8760      26416     28336     84760
  1128      3368      2856      8504      9144      27376     29296     87936
  1160      3496      2984      8760      9528      28336     30576     90816
  1192      3624      3112      9144      9912      29296     31704     93800
  1224      3624      3240      9528      10296     30576     32856     97896
  1256      3752      3368      9912      10680     31704     34008     101840
  1288      3880      3496      10296     11064     32856     35160     105528
  1320      4008      3624      10680     11448     34008     36696     110136
  1352      4008      3752      11064     11832     35160     37888     115040
  1384      4136      3880      11448     12216     36696     39232     119816
  1416      4264      4008      11832     12576     37888     40576     119816
  1480      4392      4136      12576     12960     39232     42368     128496
  1544      4584      4264      12960     13536     40576     43816     133208
  1608      4776      4392      12960     14112     42368     45352     137792
  1672      4968      4584      13536     14688     43816     46888     142248
  1736      5160      4776      14112     15264     45352     48936     146856
  1800      5352      4968      14688     15840     46888     51024     152976
  1864      5544      5160      15264     16416     48936     52752     157432
  1928      5736      5352      15840     16992     51024     55056     165216
  1992      5992      5544      16416     17568     52752     57336     171888
  2024      5992      5736      16992     18336     55056     59256     177816
  2088      6200      5992      18336     19080     57336     61664     185728
  2152      6456      6200      18336     19848     59256     63776     191720
  2216      6712      6456      19080     20616     61664     66592     199824
  2280      6712      6712      19848     21384     63776     68808     205880
  2344      6968      6968      20616     22152     66592     71112     214176
  2408      7224      7224      21384     22920     68808     73712     221680
  2472      7480      7480      22152     23688     71112     75376     226416
  2536      7480      7736      22920     24496     73712               
  2600      7736      7992      23688     25456     76208               
  76208     230104    81176     245648    87936     266440    93800     284608
  78704     236160    84760     254328    90816     275376    97896     293736
  105528    314888    107832    324336    110136    324336    112608    336576
  115040    339112    117256    351224    119816    363336    124464    373296
  125808    375448                                                      
  --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ---------

##### 7.1.7.2.5 Transport blocks mapped to four-layer spatial multiplexing

For ![](media/image298.wmf), the TBS is given by the
(![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image299.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.1-1.

For ![](media/image300.wmf), a baseline TBS\_L1 is taken from the
(![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image293.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.1-1, which is then translated into TBS\_L4 using the mapping
rule shown in Table 7.1.7.2.5-1. The TBS is given by TBS\_L4.

Table 7.1.7.2.5-1: One-layer to four-layer TBS translation table

  --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ---------
  TBS\_L1   TBS\_L4   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L4   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L4   TBS\_L1   TBS\_L4
  776       3112      2280      9144      7224      29296     24496     97896
  808       3240      2344      9528      7480      29296     25456     101840
  840       3368      2408      9528      7736      30576     26416     105528
  872       3496      2472      9912      7992      31704     27376     110136
  904       3624      2536      10296     8248      32856     28336     115040
  936       3752      2600      10296     8504      34008     29296     115040
  968       3880      2664      10680     8760      35160     30576     124464
  1000      4008      2728      11064     9144      36696     31704     128496
  1032      4136      2792      11064     9528      37888     32856     133208
  1064      4264      2856      11448     9912      39232     34008     137792
  1096      4392      2984      11832     10296     40576     35160     142248
  1128      4584      3112      12576     10680     42368     36696     146856
  1160      4584      3240      12960     11064     43816     37888     151376
  1192      4776      3368      13536     11448     45352     39232     157432
  1224      4968      3496      14112     11832     46888     40576     161760
  1256      4968      3624      14688     12216     48936     42368     169544
  1288      5160      3752      15264     12576     51024     43816     175600
  1320      5352      3880      15264     12960     51024     45352     181656
  1352      5352      4008      15840     13536     55056     46888     187712
  1384      5544      4136      16416     14112     57336     48936     195816
  1416      5736      4264      16992     14688     59256     51024     203704
  1480      5992      4392      17568     15264     61664     52752     211936
  1544      6200      4584      18336     15840     63776     55056     220296
  1608      6456      4776      19080     16416     66592     57336     230104
  1672      6712      4968      19848     16992     68808     59256     236160
  1736      6968      5160      20616     17568     71112     61664     245648
  1800      7224      5352      21384     18336     73712     63776     254328
  1864      7480      5544      22152     19080     76208     66592     266440
  1928      7736      5736      22920     19848     78704     68808     275376
  1992      7992      5992      23688     20616     81176     71112     284608
  2024      7992      6200      24496     21384     84760     73712     293736
  2088      8248      6456      25456     22152     87936     75376     299856
  2152      8504      6712      26416     22920     90816               
  2216      8760      6968      28336     23688     93800               
  76208     305976    81176     324336    87936     351224    93800     375448
  78704     314888    84760     339112    90816     363336    97896     391656
  105528    422232    107832    422232    110136    440616    112608    452832
  115040    460232    117256    471192    119816    478400    124464    501792
  125808    502624                                                      
  --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ---------

##### 7.1.7.2.6 Transport blocks mapped for BL/CE UEs configured with CEModeB and PDSCH bandwidth up to 1.4MHz

BL/CE UEs configured with CEModeB and not configured with higher layer
parameter *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* with value ≥5MHz and not
configured with higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-PDSCH-MaxBandwidth-SC-MTCH* with value 24 PRBs shall set
![](media/image301.wmf) and determine its TBS by the procedure in Clause
7.1.7.2.1 for ![](media/image302.wmf), and ![](media/image303.wmf) = 4
or![](media/image303.wmf)= 6.

##### 7.1.7.2.7 Transport blocks mapped for BL/CE UEs *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*

The TBS is given by the![](media/image215.wmf)entry of Table
7.1.7.2.7-1.

Table 7.1.7.2.7-1: Transport block size (TBS) table for PDSCH carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*

  ------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ---------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   0     1     2     3          4     5     6     7     8     9     10    11    12    13    14    15
  TBS                       N/A   208   208   208        256   256   256   328   328   328   504   504   504   712   712   712
  ![](media/image215.wmf)   16    17    18    19         20    21    22    23    24    25    26    27    28    29    30    31
  TBS                       936   936   936   Reserved                                                                     
  ------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ---------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----

##### 7.1.7.2.8 Transport blocks mapped for UEs configured with *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* value of 5 MHz or with *pdsch-MaxBandwidth-SC-MTCH* value of 24 PRBs

For![](media/image304.wmf), and ![](media/image269.wmf)the TBS is given
by the (![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image201.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.1-1.

For![](media/image305.wmf), and ![](media/image269.wmf)the TBS is given
by the (![](media/image215.wmf),![](media/image201.wmf)) entry of Table
7.1.7.2.8-1.

Table 7.1.7.2.8-1: Transport block size (TBS) table for UEs configured
with *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* value of 5 MHz or with
*pdsch-MaxBandwidth-SC-MTCH* value of 24 PRBs

  ![](media/image215.wmf)   ![](media/image201.wmf)                                                           
  ------------------------- ------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
                            15                        16     17     18     19     20     21     22     23     24
  0                         392                       424    456    488    504    536    568    600    616    648
  1                         520                       568    600    632    680    712    744    776    808    872
  2                         648                       696    744    776    840    872    936    968    1000   1064
  3                         872                       904    968    1032   1096   1160   1224   1256   1320   1384
  4                         1064                      1128   1192   1288   1352   1416   1480   1544   1608   1736
  5                         1320                      1384   1480   1544   1672   1736   1864   1928   2024   2088
  6                         1544                      1672   1736   1864   1992   2088   2216   2280   2408   2472
  7                         1800                      1928   2088   2216   2344   2472   2536   2664   2792   2984
  8                         2088                      2216   2344   2536   2664   2792   2984   3112   3240   3368
  9                         2344                      2536   2664   2856   2984   3112   3368   3496   3624   3752
  10                        2664                      2792   2984   3112   3368   3496   3752   3880   4008   4008
  11                        2984                      3240   3496   3624   3880   4008   4008   4008          
  12                        3368                      3624   3880   4008   4008                               
  13                        3880                      4008   4008                                             
  14                        4008                                                                              

#### 7.1.7.3 Redundancy Version determination for Format 1C

If the DCI Format 1C CRC is scrambled by P-RNTI or RA-RNTI, then

\- the UE shall set the Redundancy Version to 0

Else if the DCI Format 1C CRC is scrambled by SI-RNTI, then

\- the UE shall set the Redundancy Version as defined in \[8\].

### 7.1.8 Storing soft channel bits

For FDD, TDD and FDD-TDD, if the UE is configured with more than one
serving cell or if the UE is configured with a SCG, then for each
serving cell, for at least ![](media/image306.wmf) transport blocks,
upon decoding failure of a code block of a transport block, the UE shall
store received soft channel bits corresponding to a range of at least
![](media/image307.wmf)![](media/image308.wmf),...,![](media/image309.wmf),
where:

![](media/image310.wmf),

![](media/image307.wmf), ![](media/image311.wmf){width="0.125in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} , ![](media/image312.wmf),
![](media/image313.wmf), ,and ![](media/image314.wmf) are defined in
Clause 5.1.4.1.2 of \[4\].

*M*~DL\_HARQ~ is the maximum number of DL HARQ processes.

If the UE is configured with a SCG

\- ![](media/image315.wmf){width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}is the number of configured serving cells
across both MCG and SCG.

else

\- ![](media/image316.wmf)is the number of configured serving cells.

![](media/image317.wmf) is the maximum \"Total number of soft channel
bits\" \[12\] among all the indicated UE categories \[11\] of this UE.

In determining *k*, the UE should give priority to storing soft channel
bits corresponding to lower values of *k*. ![](media/image307.wmf) shall
correspond to a received soft channel bit. The range
![](media/image307.wmf)![](media/image308.wmf),...,![](media/image318.wmf)may
include subsets not containing received soft channel bits.

### 7.1.9 PDSCH resource mapping parameters

A UE configured in transmission mode 10 for a given serving cell can be
configured with up to 8 parameter sets by higher layer signaling to
decode PDSCH according to a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 2D
intended for the UE and the given serving cell. The UE shall use the
parameter set according to the value of the \'PDSCH RE Mapping and
Quasi-Co-Location indicator\' field (mapping defined in Table 7.1.9-1
for Type B and defined in Table 7.9.1-1A for Type C quasi co-location)
in the detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 2D for determining the RE
mapping (defined in Clause 6.4 of \[3\]), and for determining antenna
port quasi co-location (defined in Clause 7.1.10) for PDSCH if the UE is
configured with Type B quasi co-location type (defined in Clause 7.1.10)
or for each PDSCH codeword if the UE is configured with Type C quasi
co-location (defined in Clause 7.1.10). If the UE is configured with
Type C quasi co-location and not configured with parameter set for
codeword 1, the UE shall assume the parameter set for codeword 1 is the
same as the parameter set for codeword 0.

For PDSCH without a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH, the UE shall use the
parameter set indicated in the PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 2D
corresponding to the associated SPS activation for determining the RE
mapping (defined in Clause 6.4 of \[3\]) and antenna port quasi
co-location (defined in Clause 7.1.10) for PDSCH if the UE is configured
with Type B quasi co-location and for each PDSCH codeword if the UE is
configured with Type C quasi co-location.

Table 7.1.9-1: PDSCH RE Mapping and Quasi-Co-Location Indicator field in
DCI format 2D for Type B quasi co-location

  Value of \'PDSCH RE Mapping and Quasi-Co-Location Indicator\' field   Description
  --------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  \'00\'                                                                Parameter set 1 configured by higher layers
  \'01\'                                                                Parameter set 2 configured by higher layers
  \'10\'                                                                Parameter set 3 configured by higher layers
  \'11\'                                                                Parameter set 4 configured by higher layers

Table 7.1.9-1A: PDSCH RE Mapping and Quasi-Co-Location Indicator field
in DCI format 2D for Type C quasi co-location

  Value of \'PDSCH RE Mapping and Quasi-Co-Location Indicator\' field   Description
  --------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  \'00\'                                                                Parameter set 1 configured by higher layers for codeword 0 and Parameter set 2 configured by higher layers for codeword 1 (if any)
  \'01\'                                                                Parameter set 3 configured by higher layers for codeword 0 and Parameter set 4 configured by higher layers for codeword 1 (if any)
  \'10\'                                                                Parameter set 5 configured by higher layers for codeword 0 and Parameter set 6 configured by higher layers for codeword 1 (if any)
  \'11\'                                                                Parameter set 7 configured by higher layers for codeword 0 and Parameter set 8 configured by higher layers for codeword 1 (if any)

The following parameters for determining PDSCH RE mapping and PDSCH
antenna port quasi co-location are configured via higher layer signaling
for each parameter set for Type B quasi co-location and parameter set
1,3,5,7 for Type C quasi co-location:

*- crs-PortsCount-r11.*

*- crs-FreqShift-r11.*

*- mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-r11.*

*- csi-RS-ConfigZPId-r11.*

*- pdsch-Start-r11.*

*- qcl-CSI-RS-ConfigNZPId-r11.*

The following parameters for determining PDSCH RE mapping and PDSCH
antenna port quasi co-location are configured via higher layer signaling
for parameter set 2,4,6,8 for Type C quasi co-location

*- crs-PortsCount-v15xy.*

*- crs-FreqShift-v15xy.*

*- mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-v15xy.*

*- csi-RS-ConfigZPId-v15xy.*

*- pdsch-Start-v15xy.*

*- qcl-CSI-RS-ConfigNZPId-v15xy.*

To decode PDSCH according to a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1A
with CRC scrambled with C-RNTI intended for the UE and the given serving
cell and for PDSCH transmission on antenna port 7, a UE configured in
transmission mode 10 for a given serving cell shall use the parameter
set 1 in table 7.1.9-1 or table 7.1.9-1A for determining the PDSCH RE
mapping (defined in Clause 6.4 of \[3\]), and for determining PDSCH
antenna port quasi co-location (defined in Clause 7.1.10) if the UE is
configured with Type B or Type C quasi co-location type (defined in
Clause 7.1.10).

To decode PDSCH corresponding to detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
1A with CRC scrambled with SPS C-RNTI and PDSCH without a corresponding
PDCCH/EPDCCH associated with SPS activation indicated in PDCCH/EPDCCH
with DCI format 1A, a UE configured in transmission mode 10 for a given
serving cell shall use the parameter set 1 in table 7.1.9-1 or table
7.1.9-1A for determining the PDSCH RE mapping (defined in Clause 6.4 of
\[3\]), and for determining PDSCH antenna port quasi co-location
(defined in Clause 7.1.10) if the UE is configured with Type B or Type C
quasi co-location type (defined in Clause 7.1.10).

If the UE is configured in transmission mode 10 and configured with Type
B or Type C quasi co-location and configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\' for a CSI process, the UE is not
expected to receive a \'PDSCH RE Mapping and Quasi-Co-Location
indicator\' selecting a parameter set with CSI-RS resource configuration
for the CSI process identified by the higher layer parameter
*qcl-CSI-RS-ConfigNZPId-r11* corresponding to a deactivated CSI-RS
resource (defined in Clause 7.2.8) or an activated CSI-RS resource
(defined in Clause 7.2.8) with no CSI-RS transmission since the
activation of the CSI-RS resource.

If the UE is configured in transmission mode 10 and configured with Type
B or Type C quasi co-location and configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'aperiodic\' for a CSI process, the UE is not
expected to receive a \'PDSCH RE Mapping and Quasi-Co-Location
indicator\' selecting a parameter set with CSI-RS resource configuration
for the CSI process identified by the higher layer parameter
*qcl-CSI-RS-ConfigNZPId-r11*.

To decode PDSCH according to a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1A
intended for the UE on a given serving cell and for PDSCH transmission
on antenna port 0 -- 3, a UE configured in transmission mode 10 for the
given serving cell shall determine the PDSCH RE mapping (as described in
Clause 6.4 of \[3\]) using the lowest indexed zero-power CSI-RS
resource.

To decode PDSCH according to a detected SPDCCH with DCI format 7-1 A,
7-1B, 7-1C, 7-1D, 7-1E, 7-1F, 7-1G with CRC scrambled with C-RNTI or
retransmission of PDSCH according to a detected SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1 A, 7-1B, 7-1C, 7-1D, 7-1E, 7-1F, 7-1G with CRC scrambled with SPS
C-RNTI intended for the UE and the given serving cell, a UE shall use
the value of the higher layer parameter *rateMatchingMode* (for each
SPDCCH-PRB set), and the \'Used/Unused SPDCCH resource indication\'
field (if present) in the SPDCCH for determining the PDSCH RE mapping
(defined in Clause 6.4 of \[3\]).

A UE configured with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-ConfigZP-ApList* for
a given serving cell is configured with 4 aperiodic zero-power CSI-RS
resources by higher layer signaling to decode PDSCH according to a
detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1/1B/1D//2/2A/2B/2C/2D intended
for the UE and the given serving cell. The UE shall use the aperiodic
zero-power CSI-RS resource according to the value of the \' Aperiodic
zero-power CSI-RS resource indicator for PDSCH RE Mapping\' field
(mapping defined in Table 7.1.9-2) in the detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI
format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D for determining the PDSCH RE mapping
(defined in Clause 6.4 of \[3\]).

Table 7.1.9-2: Aperiodic zero-power CSI-RS resource indicator for PDSCH
RE Mapping field in DCI format 1/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D

  Value of Aperiodic zero-power CSI-RS resource indicator for PDSCH RE Mapping \' field   Description
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  \'00\'                                                                                  Aperiodic zero-power CSI-RS resources 1 configured by higher layers
  \'01\'                                                                                  Aperiodic zero-power CSI-RS resources 2 configured by higher layers
  \'10\'                                                                                  Aperiodic zero-power CSI-RS resources 3 configured by higher layers
  \'11\'                                                                                  Aperiodic zero-power CSI-RS resources 4 configured by higher layers

### 7.1.10 Antenna ports quasi co-location for PDSCH

A UE configured in transmission mode 8-10 for a serving cell may assume
the antenna ports 7 -- 14 of the serving cell are quasi co-located (as
defined in \[3\]) for a given subframe with respect to delay spread,
Doppler spread, Doppler shift, average gain, and average delay.

A UE configured in transmission mode 1-9 for a serving cell may assume
the antenna ports 0 -- 3, 5, 7 -- 46 of the serving cell are quasi
co-located (as defined in \[3\]) with respect to Doppler shift, Doppler
spread, average delay, and delay spread.

A UE configured in transmission mode 10 for a serving cell is configured
with one of three quasi co-location types for the serving cell by higher
layer parameter *qcl-Operation* to decode PDSCH according to
transmission scheme associated with antenna ports 7-14:

\- Type A: The UE may assume the antenna ports 0 -- 3, 7 -- 46 of a
serving cell are quasi co-located (as defined in \[3\]) with respect to
delay spread, Doppler spread, Doppler shift, and average delay.

\- Type B: The UE may assume the antenna ports 15 -- 46 corresponding to
the CSI-RS resource configuration identified by the higher layer
parameter *qcl-CSI-RS-ConfigNZPId-r11* (defined in Clause 7.1.9) and the
antenna ports 7 -- 14 associated with the PDSCH are quasi co-located (as
defined in \[3\]) with respect to Doppler shift, Doppler spread, average
delay, and delay spread.

\- Type C: The UE may assume the antenna ports 15 -- 46 corresponding to
the CSI-RS resource configuration identified by the higher layer
parameter *qcl-CSI-RS-ConfigNZPId-r11* or *qcl-CSI-RS-ConfigNZPId2-r15*
(defined in Clause 7.1.9) and the antenna ports 7 -- 14 associated with
each PDSCH codeword are quasi co-located (as defined in \[3\]) with
respect to Doppler shift, Doppler spread, average delay, and delay
spread.

For a LAA Scell, the UE is not expected to be configured with quasi
co-location type B or type C.

### 7.1.11 PDSCH subframe assignment for BL/CE UE

A BL/CE UE shall upon detection of a MPDCCH with DCI format
6-1A/6-1B/6-2 intended for the UE, decode the corresponding PDSCH in
subframe(s) *n+k~i~* with *i = 0, 1, ..., N~TB~N-1* according to the
MPDCCH, where

\- subframe *n* is the last subframe in which the MPDCCH is transmitted
and is determined from the starting subframe of MPDCCH transmission and
the DCI subframe repetition number field in the corresponding DCI;

\- the value of is the number of scheduled TB determined in the
corresponding DCI if present, otherwise;

\- the value of ![](media/image321.wmf){width="1.2986111111111112in"
height="0.19444444444444445in"} is determined by the repetition number
field in the corresponding DCI, where
![](media/image322.wmf){width="0.7013888888888888in"
height="0.19444444444444445in"} are given in Table 7.1.11-1, Table
7.1.11-2 and Table 7.1.11-3, respectively

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *multiTB-Gap* and
the PDSCH corresponds to an MPDCCH with DCI CRC scrambled by G-RNTI,

\- subframe(s) *n~i~* = *n+k~i~* with *i=0,1,..., N~TB~N-1* are *N~TB~N*
BL/CE DL subframe(s), where, subframe *n+x* is the second BL/CE DL
subframe after subframe *n*, and for
$i = 1,\ldots,N{\times N}_{\text{TB}} - 1$, subframe $n_{i}$ is the
first BL/CE DL subframe after subframe
$n_{i - 1} + N_{\text{gap}} \times \delta(i\ \text{mod}\ N)$, where
$N_{\text{gap}}$ is given by higher layer parameter *multiTB-Gap*, and
$\delta\left( d \right) = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
1,\ d = 0 \\
0,d \neq 0 \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $.

\- otherwise,

\- subframe(s) *n~i~* = *n+k~i~* with *i=0,1,..., N~TB~N-1* are *N~TB~N*
consecutive BL/CE DL subframe(s), where , and subframe *n+x* is the
second BL/CE DL subframe after subframe *n*.

\- for ,

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *interleaving* in
*ce-PDSCH-MultiTB-Config*, and PDSCH corresponding to a MPDCCH with DCI
CRC scrambled by C-RNTI and where for BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA,
for BL/CE UE configured with CEModeB,

\- BL/CE DL subframes with are associated with TB~*r+*1~ ,

\- otherwise,

\- BL/CE DL subframes with are associated with TB~*r+*1~ , .

For BL/CE UEs, and for a PDSCH transmission starting in subframe
*n+k~0~* without a corresponding MPDCCH, the UE shall decode the PDSCH
transmission in subframe(s) *n+k~i~* with *i = 0, 1, ..., N-1,* where

\- subframe(s) *n+k~i~* with *i=0,1,...,N-1* are *N* consecutive BL/CE
DL subframe(s), where *0≤k~0~\<k~1~\<...,k~N-1~* and the value of
![](media/image333.wmf) is determined by the repetition number field in
the activation DCI, where
![](media/image322.wmf){width="0.6770833333333334in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} are given in Table 7.1.11-1, Table
7.1.11-2 and Table 7.1.11-3, respectively.

If PDSCH carrying *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* is transmitted in one
narrowband in subframe *n+k~i~*, *a BL/CE UE shall assume any other
PDSCH in the same narrowband in the subframe n+k~i~ is dropped.* If
PDSCH carrying SI message is transmitted in one narrowband in subframe
*n+k~i~*, a BL/CE UE shall assume any other PDSCH not carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* in the same narrowband in the subframe
*n+k~i~* is dropped.

*For single antenna port (port 0), transmit diversity and closed-loop
spatial multiplexing transmission schemes, if a PDSCH is transmitted in
BL/CE DL subframe n+k~i~ and BL/CE DL subframe n+k~i~ is configured as
an MBSFN subframe, a BL/CE UE shall assume that the PDSCH in subframe
n+k~i~ is dropped.*

For PDSCH assigned by MPDCCH with DCI CRC scrambled by G-RNTI and DCI
Format 6-1A, the UE shall use the higher layer parameter
*pdsch-maxNumRepetitionCEmodeA-SC-MTCH* instead of
*pdsch-maxNumRepetitionCEmodeA* in Table 7.1.11-1.

For PDSCH assigned by MPDCCH with DCI CRC scrambled by G-RNTI and DCI
Format 6-1B, the UE shall use the higher layer parameter
*pdsch-maxNumRepetitionCEmodeB-SC-MTCH* instead of
*pdsch-maxNumRepetitionCEmodeB* in Table 7.1.11-2.

For a BL/CE UE in half-duplex FDD operation, if the UE is configured
with CEModeA, and configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-HARQ-AckBundling*, and \'HARQ-ACK bundling flag\' in the
corresponding DCI is set to 1, the UE shall assume
![](media/image334.wmf).

Table 7.1.11-1: PDSCH repetition levels (DCI Format 6-1A)

+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
| Higher layer parameter              | ![](media/image335.wmf) |
|                                     |                         |
| \'*pdsch-maxNumRepetitionCEmodeA*\' |                         |
+=====================================+=========================+
| Not configured                      | {1,2,4,8}               |
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
| 16                                  | {1,4,8,16}              |
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
| 32                                  | {1,4,16,32}             |
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+

Table 7.1.11-2: PDSCH repetition levels (DCI Format 6-1B)

+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| Higher layer parameter              | ![](media/image336.wmf)         |
|                                     |                                 |
| \'*pdsch-maxNumRepetitionCEmodeB*\' |                                 |
+=====================================+=================================+
| Not configured                      | {4,8,16,32,64,128,256,512}      |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| 192                                 | {1,4,8,16,32,64,128,192}        |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| 256                                 | {4,8,16,32,64,128,192,256}      |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| 384                                 | {4,16,32,64,128,192,256,384}    |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| 512                                 | {4,16,64,128,192,256,384,512}   |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| 768                                 | {8,32,128,192,256,384,512,768}  |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| 1024                                | {4,8,16,64,128,256,512,1024}    |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| 1536                                | {4,16,64,256,512,768,1024,1536} |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+
| 2048                                | {4,16,64,128,256,512,1024,2048} |
+-------------------------------------+---------------------------------+

Table 7.1.11-3: PDSCH repetition levels (DCI Format 6-2)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 2-bit \"DCI subframe repetition  | ![](media/image336.wmf)          |
| number\"                         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| field in DCI Format 6-2          |                                  |
+==================================+==================================+
| 00                               | {1,2,4,8,16,32,64,128}           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 01                               | {4,8,16,32,64,128,192,256}       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10                               | {32,64,128,192,256,384,512,768}  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 11                               | {192                             |
|                                  | ,256,384,512,768,1024,1536,2048} |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

 7.2 UE procedure for reporting Channel State Information (CSI)
--------------------------------------------------------------

If the UE is configured with a PUCCH-SCell, the UE shall apply the
procedures described in this clause for both primary PUCCH group and
secondary PUCCH group unless stated otherwise

-   When the procedures are applied for the primary PUCCH group, the
    > terms \'secondary cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\',
    > and \'serving cells\' in this clause refer to secondary cell,
    > secondary cells, serving cell or serving cells belonging to the
    > primary PUCCH group respectively unless stated otherwise.

-   When the procedures are applied for secondary PUCCH group, the terms
    > \'secondary cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\' and
    > \'serving cells\' in this clause refer to secondary cell,
    > secondary cells (not including the PUCCH-SCell), serving cell,
    > serving cells belonging to the secondary PUCCH group respectively
    > unless stated otherwise. The term \'primary cell\' in this clause
    > refers to the PUCCH-SCell of the secondary PUCCH group.

If a UE is configured with a LAA SCell for UL transmissions, the UE
shall apply the procedures described in this clause assuming frame
structure type 1 for the LAA SCell unless stated otherwise.

The time and frequency resources that can be used by the UE to report
CSI which consists of Channel Quality Indicator (CQI), precoding matrix
indicator (PMI), precoding type indicator (PTI), CSI-RS resource
indicator (CRI), and/or rank indication (RI) are controlled by the eNB.
For spatial multiplexing, as given in \[3\], the UE shall determine a RI
corresponding to the number of useful transmission layers. For transmit
diversity as given in \[3\], RI is equal to one.

A non-BL/CE UE in transmission mode 8 or 9 is configured with or without
PMI/RI reporting by the higher layer parameter *pmi-RI-Report*.

A UE in transmission mode 10 can be configured with one or more CSI
processes per serving cell by higher layers.

For a UE in transmission mode 10,

\- If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*,
each CSI process is associated with a CSI-RS resource (defined in Clause
7.2.5) and a CSI-interference measurement (CSI-IM) resource (defined in
Clause 7.2.6). A UE can be configured with up to two CSI-IM resources
for a CSI process if the UE is configured with CSI subframe sets
![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) by the higher layer
parameter *csi-SubFramePatternConfig-r12* for the CSI process.

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
not configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', each CSI process is associated with
a CSI-RS resource (defined in Clause 7.2.5) and a CSI-interference
measurement (CSI-IM) resource (defined in Clause 7.2.6). A UE can be
configured with up to two CSI-IM resources for a CSI process if the UE
is configured with CSI subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) by the higher layer parameter
*csi-SubFramePatternConfig-r12* for the CSI process.

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
not configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', each CSI process is associated with
one or more CSI-RS resource (defined in Clause 7.2.5) and one or more
CSI-interference measurement (CSI-IM) resource (defined in Clause
7.2.6). Each CSI-RS resource is associated with a CSI-IM resource by
higher layers. For a CSI process with one CSI-RS resource, a UE can be
configured with CSI-IM resource for each CSI subframe sets if the UE is
configured with CSI subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) by the higher layer parameter
*csi-SubFramePatternConfig-r12* for the CSI process. If a UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *FeCoMPCSIEnabled* for a CSI
process, the CSI process is associated with two CSI-RS resource and one
CSI-IM resource.

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2*
is set to \'CLASS B\', each CSI process is associated with a CSI-RS
resource (defined in Clause 7.2.5) and a CSI-interference measurement
(CSI-IM) resource (defined in Clause 7.2.6) for *eMIMO-Type*, and one
CSI-RS resource (defined in Clause 7.2.5) and one CSI-interference
measurement (CSI-IM) resource (defined in Clause 7.2.6) for
*eMIMO-Type2*. A UE can be configured with up to two CSI-IM resources
for each *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2* of a CSI process if the UE is
configured with CSI subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) by the higher layer parameter
*csi-SubFramePatternConfig-r12* for the CSI process.

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and *eMIMO-Type2*
is set to \'CLASS B\', each CSI process is associated with more than one
CSI-RS resource (defined in Clause 7.2.5) and more than one
CSI-interference measurement (CSI-IM) resource (defined in Clause 7.2.6)
with association of each CSI-RS resource with a CSI-IM resource by
higher layers for *eMIMO-Type*, and one CSI-RS resource (defined in
Clause 7.2.5) and one CSI-interference measurement (CSI-IM) resource
(defined in Clause 7.2.6) for *eMIMO-Type2*.

For a UE in transmission mode 10, a CSI reported by the UE corresponds
to a CSI process configured by higher layers. Each CSI process can be
configured with or without PMI/RI reporting by higher layer signalling.

If a UE is configured with a serving cell with frame structure 3, the UE
is not required to update measurements for more than 5 CSI processes in
a subframe, in case the total number of serving cells is no more than 5.
If a UE is configured with more than 5 serving cells, the UE is not
required to update measurements for more than ![](media/image339.wmf)
CSI processes in a subframe, where the value of ![](media/image339.wmf)
is given by

*- maxNumberUpdatedCSI-Proc-r13* if the UE is configured with a serving
cell with frame structure 3

*- maxNumberUpdatedCSI-Proc-SPT-r15*if the UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *shortProcessingTime*

If a UE is configured with the higher layer parameter *shortTTI*, the UE
is not required to update measurements for more than
![](media/image340.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"} CSI processes in
a DL

\- slot, where the value of ![](media/image340.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} is given by *maxNumberUpdatedCSI-Proc-STTI-Comb77-r15*
if the higher layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length* is set to \'slot\' and if
the higher layer parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'slot\'.

\- subslot, where the value of ![](media/image340.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} is given by *maxNumberUpdatedCSI-Proc-STTI-Comb27-r15*
if the higher layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length* is set to \'subslot\' and
if the higher layer parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'slot\'.

\- subslot, where the value of ![](media/image340.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} is given by
*maxNumberUpdatedCSI-Proc-STTI-Comb22-Set1-r15* if the higher layer
parameter *dl-TTI-Length* is set to \'subslot\' and if the higher layer
parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'subslot\' and if
*proc-Timeline-r15* is set to \'nplus4set1\' or \'nplus6set1\'.

\- subslot, where the value of ![](media/image340.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} is given by
*maxNumberUpdatedCSI-Proc-STTI-Comb22-Set2-r15* if the higher layer
parameter *dl-TTI-Length* is set to \'subslot\' and if the higher layer
parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'subslot\' and if
*proc-Timeline-r15* is set to \'nplus6set2\' or \'nplus8set2\'.

For UE in transmission mode 9 and the UE configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type*, the term \'CSI process\' in this Clause refers
to the CSI configured for the UE.

For a UE in transmission mode 9, and if the UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and,

*-* UE is not configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', each CSI process is associated with
a CSI-RS resource (defined in Clause 7.2.5).

*-* UE is not configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', each CSI process is associated with
one or more CSI-RS resource (defined in Clause 7.2.5).

*-* UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\' and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS
B\', each CSI process is associated with a CSI-RS resource (defined in
Clause 7.2.5) for *eMIMO-Type*, and a CSI-RS resource (defined in Clause
7.2.5) for *eMIMO-Type2*.

*-* UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\' and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS
B\', each CSI process is associated with more than one CSI-RS resource
(defined in Clause 7.2.5) for *eMIMO-Type*, and a CSI-RS resource
(defined in Clause 7.2.5) for *eMIMO-Type2*.

For a CSI process, and if a UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or
10, and UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*pmi-RI-Report*, and UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of
CSI-RS antenna ports in at least one of the one or more configured
CSI-RS resource is more than one, the UE is considered to be configured
without PMI reporting.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, UE is not expected to
be configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type*
is set to \'CLASS B\', and more than one CSI-RS resource configured, and
the number of CSI-RS resource configured with one antenna port is not
equal to total number number of CSI-RS resources associated with the CSI
process.

A UE is configured with resource-restricted CSI measurements if the
subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are
configured by higher layers. A UE can also be configured with resource
restricted CSI measurements for dormant serving cells with subframe sets
*C*~CSI,0-dormant~ and *C*~CSI,1-dormant~. If the UE is configured with
resource restricted CSI measurements for dormant serving cells, and in
this clause refer to and for activated serving cells, and to
*C*~CSI,0-dormant~ and *C*~CSI,1-dormant~ for dormant serving cells.

For a serving cell with frame structure type 1, a UE is not expected to
be configured with *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12*.

CSI reporting is periodic or aperiodic.

A BL/CE UE configured with CEModeB is not expected to be configured with
either aperiodic CSI or periodic CSI reporting.

If the UE is configured with more than one serving cell, it transmits
aperiodic CSI for activated serving cell(s) only, and periodic CSI for
activated and/or dormant serving cell(s) only.

If a UE is not configured for simultaneous PUSCH and PUCCH transmission,
it shall transmit periodic CSI reporting on PUCCH as defined hereafter
in subframes with no PUSCH allocation.

If a UE is not configured for simultaneous PUSCH and PUCCH transmission,
it shall transmit periodic CSI reporting on PUSCH of the serving cell
with smallest *ServCellIndex* as defined hereafter in subframes with a
PUSCH allocation, where the UE shall use the same PUCCH-based periodic
CSI reporting format on PUSCH.

A UE shall transmit aperiodic CSI reporting on PUSCH if the conditions
specified hereafter are met. For aperiodic CQI/PMI reporting, RI
reporting is transmitted only if the configured CSI feedback type
supports RI reporting.

Table 7.2-1: Void

In case both periodic and aperiodic CSI reporting would occur in the
same subframe, the UE shall only transmit the aperiodic CSI report in
that subframe. If the aperiodic CSI reporting occurs on an LAA SCell,
the UE shall assume that the UL channel access procedure, as described
in clause 4.2 of \[13\], is successful to determine whether periodic and
aperiodic CSI reporting would occur in the same subframe.

If the higher layer parameter *altCQI-TableSTTI-r15* is configured and
is set to *allSubframes* and aperiodic CSI is triggered through DCI
format 7-0A or 7-0B,

*- the* UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-2.

Else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table1024QAM-STTI-r15* is
configured and is set to *allSubframes* and aperiodic CSI is triggered
through DCI format 7-0A or 7-0B,

*- the* UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-4.

Else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-TableSTTI-r15* is configured
and is set to *csi-SubframeSet1* or *csi-SubframeSet2* and aperiodic CSI
is triggered through DCI format 7-0A or 7-0B*,*

\- the UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-2 for the
corresponding CSI subframe set configured by *altCQI-TableSTTI-r15*

\- the UE shall report CQI for the other CSI subframe set according to
Table 7.2.3-1.

Else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table1024QAM-STTI-r15* is
configured and is set to *csi-SubframeSet1* or *csi-SubframeSet2* and
aperiodic CSI is triggered through DCI format 7-0A or 7-0B*,*

\- the UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-4 for the
corresponding CSI subframe set configured by
*altCQI-Table1024QAM-STTI-r15*

\- the UE shall report CQI for the other CSI subframe set according to
Table 7.2.3-1.

Else if aperiodic CSI is triggered through DCI format 7-0A or 7-0B,

-   the UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-1.

Else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-r12* is configured and
is set to *allSubframes*,

*- the* UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-2.

Else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-r15* is
configured and is set to *allSubframes*

*- the* UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-4.

Else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-r12* is configured and
is set to *csi-SubframeSet1* or *csi-SubframeSet2,*

\- the UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-2 for the
corresponding CSI subframe set configured by *altCQI-Table-r12*

\- the UE shall report CQI for the other CSI subframe set according to
Table 7.2.3-1.

Else if the higher layer parameter *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-r15* is
configured and is set to *csi-SubframeSet1* or *csi-SubframeSet2,*

\- the UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-4 for the
corresponding CSI subframe set configured by *altCQI-Table-1024QAM-r15*

\- the UE shall report CQI for the other CSI subframe set according to
Table 7.2.3-1.

Else

\- the UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-1.

For a BL/CE UE, if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config-r15* and the higher layer parameter
*csi-NumRepetitionCE-r13* indicates more than one subframe, or if the UE
is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-CQI-AlternativeTableConfig-r15*,

*- the* UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-6.

\- if the UE is not capable of supporting 64QAM in PDSCH, or the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-r13*
set to \'*on*\' and the UE is calculating CQI for a wideband CSI report,
the reported CQI \< 13.

Else if the higher layer parameter *ce-PDSCH-64QAM-Config-r15* is
configured*,*

\- the UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-5.

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-r13* set to \'*on*\' and the UE is
calculating CQI for a wideband CSI report, the reported CQI \< 11.

Else

\- the UE shall report CQI according to Table 7.2.3-3 with CQI index
between 1 and 10.

For a non-BL/CE UE, when reporting RI the UE reports a single instance
of the number of useful transmission layers. For each RI reporting
interval when the UE is configured in transmission modes 4 or when the
UE is configured in transmission mode 8, 9 or 10 with PMI/RI reporting,
a UE shall determine a RI from the supported set of RI values as defined
in Clause 5.2.2.6 of \[4\] and report the number in each RI report. For
each RI reporting interval when the UE is configured in transmission
mode 3, a UE shall determine RI as defined in Clause 5.2.2.6 of \[4\] in
each reporting interval and report the detected number in each RI report
to support selection between transmit diversity and large delay CDD.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, when reporting CRI the
UE reports a single instance of one or more selected CSI-RS resource(s).
For each CRI reporting interval, when a UE is configured in transmission
mode 10 with higher layer parameter *FeCoMPCSIEnabled* and determines
CRI=2 from the supported set of CRI values as defined in Clause 5.2.2.6
of \[4\], the UE reports the CRI=2 in each CRI report, where CRI value 2
corresponds to the configured two CSI-RS resources and one CSI-IM
resource. Otherwise, when a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode
configured*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of
configured CSI-RS resources is more than one for a CSI process, the UE
shall determine a CRI from the supported set of CRI values as defined in
Clause 5.2.2.6 of \[4\] and report the number in each CRI report, where
CRI value 0 corresponds to the configured *csi-RS-ConfigNZPId*, first
entry of *csi-IM-ConfigIdList*, first entry of
*p-C-AndCBSR-PerResourceConfigList*, and
*alternativeCodebookEnabledFor4TXProc*, and CRI value *k* (*k\>*0)
corresponds to the configured *k-*th entry of
*csi-RS-ConfigNZPIdListExt*, (*k*+1)*-*th entry of
*csi-IM-ConfigIdList*, (*k*+1)*-*th entry of
*p-C-AndCBSR-PerResourceConfigList*, and *k-*th entry of
*ace-For4Tx-PerResourceConfigList*.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, when reporting CRI the
UE reports a single instance of one or more selected CSI-RS resource(s).
For each CRI reporting interval, when a UE is configured in transmission
mode 10 with higher layer parameter *FeCoMPCSIEnabled* and determines
CRI=2 from the supported set of CRI values as defined in Clause 5.2.2.6
of \[4\], the UE reports the CRI=2 in each CRI report, where CRI value 2
corresponds to the configured two CSI-RS resources and one CSI-IM
resource. Otherwise, when a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\' and high layer parameter
*csi-RS-NZP-mode set to \'multiShot\'*, and the number of activated
CSI-RS resources is more than one for a CSI process, the UE shall
determine a CRI from the supported set of CRI values as defined in
clause 5.2.2.6 of \[4\] and report the number in each CRI report, where,
if *csi-RS-ConfigNZPId* is activated, CRI value 0 corresponds to the
activated *csi-RS-ConfigNZPId*, first entry of *csi-IM-ConfigIdList*,
*p-C-AndCBSR-PerResourceConfigList*, and
*alternativeCodebookEnabledFor4TXProc*, and CRI value *k* (*k\>*0)
corresponds to the (*k*+1)*-*th activated CSI-RS resource, which is
associated with *l*-th entry of *csi-RS-ConfigNZPIdListExt*,
(*l*+1)*-*th entry of *csi-IM-ConfigIdList*, (*l*+1)*-*th entry of
*p-C-AndCBSR-PerResourceConfigList*, and *l-*th entry of
*ace-For4Tx-PerResourceConfigList*; If *csi-RS-ConfigNZPId* is not
activated, CRI value *k* corresponds to the (*k+*1)*-*th activated
CSI-RS resource, which is associated with *l*-th entry of
*csi-RS-ConfigNZPIdListExt*, (*l*+1)*-*th entry of
*csi-IM-ConfigIdList*, (*l*+1)*-*th entry of
*p-C-AndCBSR-PerResourceConfigList*, and *l-*th entry of
*ace-For4Tx-PerResourceConfigList.*

For a non-BL/CE UE, when reporting PMI the UE reports either a single or
a multiple PMI report. The number of RBs represented by a single UE PMI
report can be ![](media/image341.wmf) or a smaller subset of RBs. The
number of RBs represented by a single PMI report is semi-statically
configured by higher layer signalling. A UE is restricted to report PMI,
RI and PTI on a subframe-PUCCH/PUSCH within a precoder codebook subset
specified by one or more bitmap parameter(s) *codebookSubsetRestriction,
codebookSubsetRestriction-1, codebookSubsetRestriction-2,
codebookSubsetRestriction-3, codebookSubsetRestriction-4* configured by
higher layer signalling. If a UE is configured by higher-layer parameter
*shortTTI*, the UE is restricted to report PMI, RI and PTI on
subslot/slot-based PUSCH within a precoder codebook subset specified by
a bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction,* configured by higher
layer signalling for the subslot/slot-based transmission.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 10 and the UE not configured
with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* for a CSI process, or for a UE
configured in transmission mode 9 or 10 and the UE configured with
higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS
B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured and except with higher layer
parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured for a
CSI process, the bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction* is
configured for each CSI process and each subframe sets (if subframe sets
![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by
higher layers) by higher layer signaling.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10 and for a CSI process
and the UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured
and except with higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured for *eMIMO-Type2*
of the CSI process, the bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction* is
configured for *eMIMO-Type2* of each CSI process and each subframe sets
(if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf)
are configured by higher layers) by higher layer signaling.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process
and UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', except when the UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled* and
*advancedCodebookEnabled* is set to \'TRUE\', the bitmap parameters
*codebookSubsetRestriction-1, codebookSubsetRestriction-2* is configured
for the CSI process and each subframe sets (if subframe sets
![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by
higher layers) by higher layer signaling.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process
and UE configured with higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled*
and *advancedCodebookEnabled* is set to \'TRUE\', and the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS A\', and the UE is configured with 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28,
and 32 antenna ports, the UE is either configured with bitmap parameter
*codebookSubsetRestriction-1,* or, the UE is configured with bitmap
parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction-4* for the CSI process and each
subframe sets (if subframe sets and are configured by higher layers) by
higher layer signaling.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process
and UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*,
the bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction-3* is configured for the
CSI process and each subframe sets (if subframe sets
![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by
higher layers) by higher layer signaling.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process
and the UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
for *eMIMO-Type2* of the CSI process, the bitmap parameter
*codebookSubsetRestriction-3* is configured for *eMIMO-Type2* of the CSI
process and each subframe sets (if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf)
and ![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by higher layers) by higher
layer signaling.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process
and UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and more than one CSI-RS resource
configured, the bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction* is
configured for each CSI-RS resource of the CSI process and each subframe
sets (if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by higher layers) by higher layer
signaling.

For a specific precoder codebook and associated transmission mode, the
bitmap can specify all possible precoder codebook subsets from which the
UE can assume the eNB may be using when the UE is configured in the
relevant transmission mode. Codebook subset restriction is supported for
transmission modes 3, 4, 5, 6 and for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10
with PMI/RI reporting, and transmission mode 9 and 10 without PMI
reporting. The resulting number of bits for each transmission mode are
given in Table 7.2-1b, Table 7.2-1d, Table 7.2-1e, and Table 7.2-1f. The
bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction*,
*codebookSubsetRestriction-1* or *codebookSubsetRestriction*-3 forms the
bit sequence ![](media/image342.wmf)where ![](media/image343.wmf) is the
LSB and ![](media/image344.wmf)is the MSB and where a bit value of zero
indicates that the PMI and RI reporting is not allowed to correspond to
precoder(s) associated with the bit. The bitmap parameter
*codebookSubsetRestriction*-*2* forms the bit sequence
![](media/image345.wmf)where ![](media/image346.wmf) is the LSB and
![](media/image347.wmf)is the MSB and where a bit value of zero
indicates that the PMI and RI reporting is not allowed to correspond to
precoder(s) associated with the bit. The association of bits to
precoders for the relevant transmission modes are given as follows:

1\. Transmission mode 3

a\. 2 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image348.wmf)is associated with the
precoder in Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\] corresponding to
![](media/image349.wmf) layers and codebook index 0 while bit
![](media/image350.wmf) is associated with the precoder for 2 antenna
ports in Clause 6.3.4.3 of \[3\].

b\. 4 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image351.wmf)is associated with the
precoders in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\] corresponding to
![](media/image349.wmf) layers and codebook indices 12, 13, 14, and 15
while bit ![](media/image350.wmf) is associated with the precoder for 4
antenna ports in Clause 6.3.4.3 of \[3\].

2\. Transmission mode 4

a\. 2 antenna ports: see Table 7.2-1c

b\. 4 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image352.wmf) is associated with the
precoder for ![](media/image353.wmf) layers and with codebook index
![](media/image354.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\].

3\. Transmission modes 5 and 6

a\. 2 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image355.wmf) is associated with the
precoder for ![](media/image356.wmf) layer with codebook index
![](media/image354.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\].

b\. 4 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image355.wmf) is associated with the
precoder for ![](media/image356.wmf) layer with codebook index
![](media/image354.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\].

4\. Transmission mode 8

a\. 2 antenna ports: see Table 7.2-1c

b\. 4 antenna ports except with
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured: bit
![](media/image352.wmf) is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image353.wmf) layers and with codebook index
![](media/image354.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\],
![](media/image357.wmf).

c\. 4 antenna ports with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE*
configured: bit ![](media/image358.wmf) is associated with the precoder
for ![](media/image353.wmf) layers (![](media/image359.wmf)) and
codebook index ![](media/image360.wmf) and bit ![](media/image361.wmf)
is associated with the precoder for ![](media/image353.wmf) layers
(![](media/image362.wmf)) and codebook index![](media/image363.wmf).
Codebook indices ![](media/image364.wmf) and ![](media/image365.wmf) are
given in Table 7.2.4-0A or 7.2.4-0B, for ![](media/image353.wmf)=1 or 2
respectively.

5\. Transmission modes 9 and 10

a\. 2 antenna ports except when a UE configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one
CSI-RS resource configured, and higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* for a CSI process, or when a
UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
for *eMIMO-Type2* of a CSI process: see Table 7.2-1c

b\. 4 antenna ports except with
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured or for a CSI
process the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*,
and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource
configured, and higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* or for a CSI process the UE
is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
for *eMIMO-Type2* of a CSI process: bit ![](media/image366.wmf) is
associated with the precoder for ![](media/image353.wmf) layers and with
codebook index ![](media/image367.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\].

c\. 4 antenna ports with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE*
configured except when a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS
resource configured, and higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* for a CSI process, or when a
UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
for *eMIMO-Type2* of a CSI process: bit ![](media/image368.wmf)is
associated with the precoder for ![](media/image353.wmf) layers
(![](media/image369.wmf)) and codebook index ![](media/image370.wmf) and
bit ![](media/image371.wmf)is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image353.wmf) layers (![](media/image372.wmf)) and codebook
index![](media/image373.wmf). Codebook indices ![](media/image374.wmf)
and ![](media/image375.wmf) are given in Table 7.2.4-0A, 7.2.4-0B,
7.2.4-0C or 7.2.4-0D, for ![](media/image353.wmf)=1,2,3 or 4
respectively.

d\. 8 antenna ports except when a UE configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', or for
when a UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
for a CSI process, or for when a UE configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and
one CSI-RS resource configured, and higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* for *eMIMO-Type2* of a CSI
process: bit ![](media/image376.wmf)is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image353.wmf) layers (![](media/image377.wmf)) and codebook
index ![](media/image378.wmf) where![](media/image379.wmf) and bit
![](media/image380.wmf)is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image353.wmf) layers (![](media/image381.wmf)) and codebook
index ![](media/image382.wmf) where ![](media/image383.wmf). Codebook
indices ![](media/image384.wmf) and ![](media/image385.wmf) are given in
Table 7.2.4-1, 7.2.4-2, 7.2.4-3, 7.2.4-4, 7.2.4-5, 7.2.4-6, 7.2.4-7, or
7.2.4-8, for ![](media/image353.wmf)=1,2,3,4,5,6,7, or 8 respectively.

e\. 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, and 32 antenna ports and for a CSI process
the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\': bit ![](media/image386.wmf) is
associated with the precoder based on the quantity
![](media/image387.wmf)![](media/image388.wmf), ![](media/image389.wmf)
and bit ![](media/image390.wmf) is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image391.wmf) layers (![](media/image377.wmf)). The quantity
![](media/image387.wmf) is defined in Clause 7.2.4. Bit
![](media/image392.wmf) is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image353.wmf) layers (![](media/image393.wmf)) and codebook
index ![](media/image385.wmf) where ![](media/image394.wmf) is given in
Table 7.2-1g. Codebook index ![](media/image385.wmf) is given in Table
7.2.4-10, 7.2.4-11, 7.2.4-12, 7.2.4-13, 7.2.4-14, 7.2.4-15, 7.2.4-16, or
7.2.4-17, for ![](media/image353.wmf)=1,2,3,4,5,6,7, or 8 respectively.

f\. 2, 4, or 8 antenna ports and for a CSI process the UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
\'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured, and higher layer
parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*, or the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type2*
is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured, and higher
layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* for
*eMIMO-Type2* of the CSI process: bit ![](media/image395.wmf) is
associated with the precoder for ![](media/image353.wmf) layers and
codebook index ![](media/image367.wmf)where ![](media/image396.wmf) and
![](media/image397.wmf) for 2 antenna ports, ![](media/image398.wmf) and
![](media/image399.wmf) for 4 antenna ports, and ![](media/image377.wmf)
and ![](media/image400.wmf) for 8 antenna ports. Codebook index
![](media/image367.wmf) is given in Table 7.2.4-18, 7.2.4-19, or
7.2.4-20, for 2, 4, or 8 antenna ports respectively.

g\. 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, and 32 antenna ports and for a CSI process
the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*advancedCodebookEnabled* and *advancedCodebookEnabled* is set to
\'TRUE\', and the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and the UE is
configured with bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction-1*: bit
![](media/image386.wmf) is associated with the precoder based on the
quantity ![](media/image387.wmf)![](media/image388.wmf),
![](media/image389.wmf) and bit ![](media/image390.wmf) is associated
with the precoder for ![](media/image391.wmf) layers
(![](media/image377.wmf)). The quantity ![](media/image387.wmf) is
defined in Clause 7.2.4.

h\. 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, and 32 antenna ports and for a CSI process
the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*advancedCodebookEnabled* and *advancedCodebookEnabled* is set to
\'TRUE\', and the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and the UE is
configured with bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction-4*: The
bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction-4* forms the bit sequence
![](media/image401.wmf), consisting of ![](media/image402.wmf) bits,
where ![](media/image343.wmf) is the LSB and ![](media/image403.wmf)is
the MSB. The bit pair![](media/image404.wmf) is associated with the
group of quantities ![](media/image405.wmf) for ![](media/image406.wmf)
if ![](media/image407.wmf) and ![](media/image408.wmf) for
![](media/image409.wmf) if ![](media/image410.wmf) and the bit
![](media/image411.wmf) is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image391.wmf) layers (![](media/image377.wmf)). The quantity
![](media/image387.wmf) is defined in Clause 7.2.4.

i For ![](media/image353.wmf)=1,2 layer reporting, PMI reporting is not
allowed to correspond to a precoder where any quantity
![](media/image387.wmf) from the group of quantities
![](media/image412.wmf) is selected by the codebook indices
![](media/image413.wmf) , unless the corresponding bit pair
![](media/image414.wmf)

ii For ![](media/image353.wmf)=1,2 layer reporting, PMI reporting is not
allowed to correspond to a precoder where any quantity
![](media/image387.wmf) from the group of quantities
![](media/image412.wmf) is selected by the codebook index
![](media/image415.wmf) , if the relative power indicator (RPI),
![](media/image416.wmf) is larger than the maxmimum allowed value
according to Table 7.2-1h.

iii For ![](media/image353.wmf)=3,4,5,6,7,8 layer reporting, PMI
reporting is not allowed to correspond to a precoder where any quantity
![](media/image387.wmf) from the group of quantities
![](media/image412.wmf) is associated with the precoder, unless the
corresponding bit pair ![](media/image414.wmf).

For a BL/CE UE, when reporting PMI the UE reports a single PMI report. A
UE is restricted to report PMI within a precoder codebook subset
specified by a bitmap parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction* configured
by higher layer signalling. For a specific precoder codebook and
associated transmission mode, the bitmap can specify all possible
precoder codebook subsets from which the UE can assume the eNB may be
using when the UE is configured in the relevant transmission mode.
Codebook subset restriction is supported for transmission modes 6 and 9.
The resulting number of bits for each transmission mode is given in
Table 7.2-1b. The bitmap forms the bit sequence ![](media/image342.wmf)
where ![](media/image343.wmf) is the LSB and ![](media/image344.wmf) is
the MSB and where a bit value of zero indicates that the PMI reporting
is not allowed to correspond to precoder(s) associated with the bit. The
association of bits to precoders for the relevant transmission modes are
given as follows:

\- Transmission mode 6

\- 2 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image355.wmf) is associated with the
precoder for ![](media/image356.wmf) layer with codebook index
![](media/image354.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\].

\- 4 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image355.wmf) is associated with the
precoder for ![](media/image356.wmf) layer with codebook index
![](media/image354.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\].

\- Transmission mode 9

\- 2 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image355.wmf) is associated with the
precoder for ![](media/image356.wmf) layer with codebook index
![](media/image354.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\].

\- 4 antenna ports: bit ![](media/image355.wmf) is associated with the
precoder for ![](media/image356.wmf) layer and with codebook index
![](media/image367.wmf)in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\].

\- 8 antenna ports: bit $a_{i_{1}}\ $is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image417.wmf){width="0.3111111111111111in"
height="0.1701388888888889in"} layer and codebook index
![](media/image418.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.2in"},
and bit $a_{53 + i_{2}}$ is associated with the precoder for
![](media/image417.wmf){width="0.3111111111111111in"
height="0.1701388888888889in"} layer and codebook index
![](media/image419.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.2in"}.
Codebook indices ![](media/image420.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in"
height="0.2in"} and
![](media/image421.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.2in"}
are given in Table 7.2.4-1. The 8 antenna ports case for Transmission
mode 9 is only applicable when the UE is configured with the higher
layer parameter *ce-CSI-RS-Feedback.*

Table 7.2-1b: Number of bits in codebook subset restriction
*codebookSubsetRestriction* bitmap for applicable transmission modes

  ----------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
                                Number of bits ![](media/image422.wmf)                                                                                  
                                2 antenna ports                          4 antenna ports                                                                8 antenna ports
  Transmission mode 3           2                                        4                                                                              
  Transmission mode 4           6                                        64                                                                             
  Transmission mode 5           4                                        16                                                                             
  Transmission mode 6           4                                        16                                                                             
  Transmission mode 8           6                                        64 with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured, otherwise 32   
  Transmission modes 9 and 10   6                                        96 with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured, otherwise 64   109
  ----------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------

Table 7.2-1c: Association of bits in *codebookSubSetRestriction* bitmap
to precoders in the 2 antenna port codebook of Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 in
\[3\]

  Codebook index ![](media/image354.wmf)   Number of layers ![](media/image423.wmf)   
  ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ --------
                                           1                                          2
  0                                        *a*~0~                                     \-
  1                                        *a*~1~                                     *a~4~*
  2                                        *a*~2~                                     *a~5~*
  3                                        *a*~3~                                     \-

Table 7.2-1d: Number of bits in codebook subset restriction
*codebookSubsetRestriction1* bitmap for applicable transmission modes

  ----------------------------- ----------------------------------------
                                Number of bits ![](media/image422.wmf)
  Transmission modes 9 and 10   ![](media/image424.wmf)
                                
  ----------------------------- ----------------------------------------

Table 7.2-1e: Number of bits in codebook subset restriction
*codebookSubsetRestriction2* bitmap for applicable transmission modes

  ----------------------------- ------------------------- ----------------------------------------
                                Value of codebookConfig   Number of bits ![](media/image422.wmf)
  Transmission modes 9 and 10   1                         12
                                2                         56
                                3                         56
                                4                         56
  ----------------------------- ------------------------- ----------------------------------------

Table 7.2-1f: Number of bits in codebook subset restriction
*codebookSubsetRestriction3* bitmap for applicable transmission modes

  ----------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------------- -----------------
                                Number of bits ![](media/image422.wmf)                     
                                2 antenna ports                          4 antenna ports   8 antenna ports
  Transmission modes 9 and 10   6                                        22                60
  ----------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------------- -----------------

Table 7.2-1g: ![](media/image394.wmf) for a CSI process with
*eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS A\'

  Value of codebookConfig   ![](media/image394.wmf)
  ------------------------- -------------------------
  1                         ![](media/image425.wmf)
  2                         ![](media/image426.wmf)
  3                         ![](media/image427.wmf)
  4                         ![](media/image427.wmf)

Table 7.2-1h: Maximum value of relative power indicator for restricted
quantities

  **Value of bit pair**   **Maximum value of Relative Power Indicator**
  ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------
                          
  \'00\'                  0
  \'01\'                  1
  \'10\'                  2
  \'11\'                  3

For a non-BL/CE UE, the set of subbands (*S*) a UE shall evaluate for
CQI reporting spans the entire downlink system bandwidth. *A subband is
a set of k contiguous PRBs where k is a function of system bandwidth.
Note the last subband in set S may have fewer than k contiguous PRBs
depending on*![](media/image341.wmf) *. The number of subbands for
system bandwidth given by*![](media/image341.wmf) *is defined
by*![](media/image428.wmf). The subbands shall be indexed in the order
of increasing frequency and non-increasing sizes starting at the lowest
frequency*.*

\- For transmission modes 1, 2, 3 and 5, as well as transmission modes
8, 9 and 10 without PMI/RI reporting, transmission mode 4 with RI=1,
transmission modes 8, 9 and 10 with PMI/RI reporting and RI=1, and
transmission modes 9 and 10 without PMI reporting and RI=1, a single
4-bit wideband CQI is reported.

\- For transmission modes 3 and 4, as well as transmission modes 8, 9
and 10 with PMI/RI reporting, and transmission modes 9 and 10 without
PMI reporting, CQI is calculated assuming transmission of

\- one codeword for slot/subslot-PUSCH based triggered reporting,

\- one codeword for RI=1 and two codewords for RI \> 1.

\- For RI \> 1 with transmission mode 4, as well as transmission modes
8, 9 and 10 with PMI/RI reporting, and transmission modes 9 and 10
without PMI reporting, PUSCH based triggered reporting includes
reporting a wideband CQI which comprises:

\- A 4-bit wideband CQI for codeword 0

\- A 4-bit wideband CQI for codeword 1 for subframe-PUSCH based
triggered reporting

\- For RI \> 1 with transmission mode 4, as well as transmission modes
8, 9 and 10 with PMI/RI reporting, and transmission modes 9 and 10
without PMI reporting, PUCCH based reporting includes reporting a 4-bit
wideband CQI for codeword 0 and a wideband spatial differential CQI. The
wideband spatial differential CQI value comprises:

\- A 3-bit wideband spatial differential CQI value for codeword 1 offset
level

\- Codeword 1 offset level = wideband CQI index for codeword 0 --
wideband CQI index for codeword 1.

\- The mapping from the 3-bit wideband spatial differential CQI value to
the offset level is shown in Table 7.2-2.

Table 7.2-2 Mapping spatial differential CQI value to offset level

  -------------------------------- --------------
  Spatial differential CQI value   Offset level
  0                                0
  1                                1
  2                                2
  3                                ≥3
  4                                ≤-4
  5                                -3
  6                                -2
  7                                -1
  -------------------------------- --------------

### 7.2.1 Aperiodic CSI Reporting using PUSCH

The term \"UL/DL configuration\" in this Clause refers to the higher
layer parameter *subframeAssignment* unless specified otherwise.

A non-BL/CE UE shall perform aperiodic CSI reporting using the PUSCH in
subframe/slot/subslot *n+k* on serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf),
upon decoding in subframe/slot/subslot *n* either:

\- an uplink DCI format \[4\], or

\- a Random Access Response Grant,

for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf) if the respective CSI request
field is set to trigger a report and is not reserved. If the CSI request
field from an uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B is set to trigger a report,
t**he reported CSI shall be according to the transmission mode
configured by higher layers for the subframe where the trigger was
received.** The UE is not expected to receive a CSI request field set to
trigger a report in a DCI indicating a PUSCH transmission in UpPTS.

For a serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)that is a LAA SCell, aperiodic
CSI reporting using the PUSCH in subframe *n+k* is conditioned on if the
UE is allowed to transmit in the subframe according to the channel
access procedures described in clause 4.2.1 of \[13\].

For a serving cell that is a LAA SCell, a UE configured with Partial
PUSCH mode 1 is not expected to receive an aperiodic CSI report request
triggering a CSI report without UL-SCH.

A BL/CE UE shall perform aperiodic CSI reporting using the PUSCH upon
decoding either:

\- an uplink DCI format \[4\], or

\- a Random Access Response Grant,

for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf) if the respective CSI request
field is set to trigger a report and is not reserved. The subframe(s) in
which the PUSCH carrying the corresponding aperiodic CSI reporting
triggered by an UL DCI format is transmitted is determined according to
Clause 8.0.

If the CSI request field is 1 bit and the UE is configured in
transmission mode 1-9 and the UE is not configured with
*csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for any serving cell, a report is
triggered for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf), if the CSI request
field is set to \'1\'. If the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for the aperiodic CSI on the serving cell
![](media/image429.wmf), the report is for a higher layer configured
eMIMO type of the aperiodic CSI configured for the UE on the serving
cell ![](media/image429.wmf). If the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of activated CSI-RS
resources given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for the
serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf), the report is for the activated
CSI-RS resource for the serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf).

If the CSI request field is 1 bit and the UE is configured in
transmission mode 10 and the UE is not configured with
*csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for any serving cell, a report is
triggered for a set of CSI process(es) for serving cell
![](media/image429.wmf) corresponding to the higher layer configured set
of CSI process(es) associated with the value of CSI request field of
\'01\' in Table 7.2.1-1B, if the CSI request field is set to \'1\'. If
the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI
process of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for a
higher layer configured eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI
request field of \'01\' for the CSI process. If the UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of
activated CSI-RS resources given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for a CSI
process of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for the
activated CSI-RS resource for the CSI process.

If the CSI request field size is 2 bits and the UE is configured in
transmission mode 1-9 for all serving cells and the UE is not configured
with *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for any serving cell, a report is
triggered according to the value in Table 7.2.1-1A corresponding to
aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for the aperiodic CSI on a serving cell of the
triggered set of serving cells, the report is for a higher layer
configured eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request field of
the aperiodic CSI configured for the UE on the serving cell. If the UE
is configured with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and
the number of activated CSI-RS resources given by the higher layer
parameter *numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for
a serving cell of the triggered set of serving cells, the report is for
the activated CSI-RS resource for the serving cell.

If the CSI request field size is 2 bits and the UE is configured in
transmission mode 10 for at least one serving cell and the UE is not
configured with *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for any serving cell, a
report is triggered according to the value in Table 7.2.1-1B
corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is configured with
higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* a CSI process of the triggered set
of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher layer configured eMIMO
type associated with the value of CSI request field for the CSI process.
If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of activated CSI-RS resources
given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for a serving
cell of the triggered set of serving cells, the report is for the
activated CSI-RS resource for the serving cell.

If the CSI request field is 1 bit and the UE is configured with the
higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for at least one
serving cell, a report is triggered for a set of CSI process(es) and/or
{CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) for serving cell
![](media/image429.wmf) corresponding to the higher layer configured set
of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s)
associated with the value of CSI request field of \'01\' in Table
7.2.1-1C, if the CSI request field is set to \'1\'. If the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process
of the triggered set of CSI process(es) for serving cell
![](media/image429.wmf), the report is for a higher layer configured
eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request field of \'01\' for
the CSI process for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf). If the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the
number of activated CSI-RS resources given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for a CSI
process of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for the
activated CSI-RS resource for the CSI process for the serving cell
![](media/image429.wmf).

If the CSI request field size is 2 bits and the UE is configured with
the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for at least
one serving cell, a report is triggered according to the value in Table
7.2.1-1C corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process
of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher
layer configured eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request
field for the CSI process. If the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of activated CSI-RS
resources given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for a CSI
process of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for the
activated CSI-RS resource for the CSI process.

If the CSI request field size is 3 bits and the UE is not configured
with the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for any
serving cell, and UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* or UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of activated CSI-RS
resources given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for each CSI
process, a report is triggered according to the value in Table 7.2.1-1D
corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is configured with
higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process of the triggered
set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher layer configured
eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request field for the CSI
process. If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of activated CSI-RS resources
given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for a CSI
process of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for the
activated CSI-RS resource for the CSI process.

If the CSI request field size is 3 bits and the UE is configured with
the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for at least
one serving cell, and UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* or UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of activated CSI-RS
resources given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for each CSI
process, a report is triggered according to the value in Table 7.2.1-1E
corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is configured with
higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process of the triggered
set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher layer configured
eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request field for the CSI
process. If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of activated CSI-RS resources
given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to \'1\' for a CSI
process of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for the
activated CSI-RS resource for the CSI process.

If the CSI request field size is 3 bits and the UE is not configured
with the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for any
serving cell, and UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* and the number of activated CSI-RS resources
given by the higher layer parameter
*numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to more than \'1\' for
at least one CSI process, a report is triggered for serving cell
![](media/image429.wmf) according to the value in Table 7.2.1-1F
corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is configured with
higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process of the triggered
set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher layer configured
eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request field for the CSI
process for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf).

If the CSI request field size is 3 bits and the UE is configured with
the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for at least
one serving cell, and UE is configured with *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList*
and the number of activated CSI-RS resources given by the higher layer
parameter *numberActivatedAperiodicCSI-RS-Resources* is set to more than
\'1\' for at least one CSI process, a report is triggered for serving
cell ![](media/image429.wmf) according to the value in Table 7.2.1-1G
corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is configured with
higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process of the triggered
set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher layer configured
eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request field for the CSI
process for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf).

If the CSI request field size is 4 bits and the UE is not configured
with the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for any
serving cell, a report is triggered according to the value in Table
7.2.1-1H corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process
of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher
layer configured eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request
field for the CSI process.

If the CSI request field size is 4 bits and the UE is configured with
the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for at least
one serving cell, a report is triggered according to the value in Table
7.2.1-1I corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process
of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher
layer configured eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request
field for the CSI process.

If the CSI request field size is 5 bits and the UE is not configured
with the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for any
serving cell, a report is triggered according to the value in Table
7.2.1-1J corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process
of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher
layer configured eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request
field for the CSI process.

If the CSI request field size is 5 bits and the UE is configured with
the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for at least
one serving cell, a report is triggered according to the value in Table
7.2.1-1K corresponding to aperiodic CSI reporting. If the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process
of the triggered set of CSI process(es), the report is for a higher
layer configured eMIMO type associated with the value of CSI request
field for the CSI process.

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* for a CSI process of the triggered set of CSI
process(es), the UE shall assume the CSI-RS resource associated with the
value of CSI request field for the CSI process is present in subframe
*n*.

For a given serving cell, if the UE is configured in transmission modes
1-9, the \"CSI process\" in Table 7.2.1-1B, Table 7.2.1-1C, Table
7.2.1-1D, and Table 7.2.1-1E refers to the aperiodic CSI configured for
the UE on the given serving cell. A UE is not expected to be configured
by higher layers with more than 5 CSI processes in each of the 1^st^ and
2^nd^ set of CSI process(es) in Table 7.2.1-1B. A UE is not expected to
be configured by higher layers with more than 5 CSI processes and/or
{CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) in each of the 1^st^ and 2^nd^
set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) in
Table 7.2.1-1C. A UE is not expected to be configured by higher layers
with more than one instance of the same CSI process in each of the
higher layer configured sets associated with the value of CSI request
field of \'01\', \'10\', and \'11\' in Table 7.2.1-1B and Table 7.2.1-1C
respectively. A UE is not expected to be configured by higher layers
with more than 32 CSI processes in each of the 1^st^ to 6^th^ set of CSI
process(es) in Table 7.2.1-1D. A UE is not expected to be configured by
higher layers with more than 32 CSI processes and/or {CSI process, CSI
subframe set}-pair(s) in each of the 1^st^ to 6^th^ set of CSI
process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) in Table
7.2.1-1E. A UE is not expected to be configured by higher layers with
more than one instance of the same CSI process in each of the higher
layer configured sets associated with the value of CSI request field of
\'001\', \'010\', \'011\', \'100\', \'101\', \'110\' and \'111\' in
Table 7.2.1-1D, Table 7.2.1-1E, Table 7.2.1-1F, and Table 7.2.1-1G
respectively. A UE is not expected to be configured by higher layers
with more than 32 of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} in each of the 1^st^
to 7^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} in Table 7.2.1-1F. A UE
is not expected to be configured by higher layers with more than 32 {CSI
process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS
resource} in each of the 1^st^ to 7^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS
resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} in
Table 7.2.1-1G. A UE is not expected to be configured by higher layers
with more than 32 of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} in each of the 1^st^
to 14^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} in Table 7.2.1-1H. A UE
is not expected to be configured by higher layers with more than 32 {CSI
process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS
resource} in each of the 1^st^ to 14^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS
resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} in
Table 7.2.1-1I. A UE is not expected to be configured by higher layers
with more than one instance of the same CSI process in each of the
higher layer configured sets associated with the value of CSI request
field of \'0001\', \'0010\', \'0011\', \'0100\', \'0101\', \'0110\',
\'0111\', \'1000\', \'1001\', \'1010\', \'1011\', \'1100\', \'1101\',
\'1110\', \'1111\' in Table 7.2.1-1H, and Table 7.2.1-1I respectively. A
UE is not expected to be configured by higher layers with more than 32
of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} in each of the 1^st^ to 30^th^ set of
{CSI process, CSI-RS resource} in Table 7.2.1-1J. A UE is not expected
to be configured by higher layers with more than 32 {CSI process, CSI-RS
resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} in
each of the 1^st^ to 30^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or
{CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} in Table 7.2.1-1K. A UE
is not expected to be configured by higher layers with more than one
instance of the same CSI process in each of the higher layer configured
sets associated with the value of CSI request field of \'00001\',
\'00010\', \'00011\', \'00100\', \'00101\', \'00110\', \'00111\',
\'01000\', \'01001\', \'01010\', \'01011\', \'01100\', \'01101\',
\'01110\', \'01111\' , \'10000\', \'10001\', \'10010\', \'10011\',
\'10100\', \'10101\', \'10110\', \'10111\', \'11000\', \'11001\',
\'11010\', \'11011\', \'11100\', \'11101\', \'11110\', \'11111\' in
Table 7.2.1-1J, and Table 7.2.1-1K respectively.

A UE is not expected to receive more than one aperiodic CSI report
request for a given subframe triggered by uplink DCI formats other than
7-0A/7-0B.

A UE is not expected to update CSI corresponding to the CSI reference
resource (defined in Clause 7.2.3) for all CSI report requests triggered
by uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B except ![](media/image430.wmf) CSI report
requests when the UE has ![](media/image431.wmf) unreported aperiodic
CSI requests, where a CSI request shall only be counted as unreported in
a slot/subslot before the slot/subslot where the PUSCH carrying the
corresponding CSI is transmitted, and ![](media/image432.wmf) is the
maximum number of CSI requests triggered by uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B
supported by the UE.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* for a CSI
process, the UE is not expected to receive an aperiodic CSI report
request for a given slot/subslot triggering a CSI report for the CSI
process.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\',
and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource
configured, the UE on reception of an aperiodic CSI report request
triggering a CSI report for *eMIMO-Type2* of the CSI process is not
expected to update CSI for *eMIMO-Type2* (*n~CQI\_ref~* -1) (defined in
Clause 7.2.3) subframes before or (*n~CQI\_ref~* *-*1) subframes after
the subframe comprising the non-zero power CSI-RS (defined in \[3\])
within the CSI-RS resource associated with *eMIMO-Type* of the CSI
process.

If a UE is configured with more than one CSI process for a serving cell,
the UE on reception of an aperiodic CSI report request triggering a CSI
report according to Table 7.2.1-1B is not expected to update CSI
corresponding to the CSI reference resource (defined in Clause 7.2.3)
for all CSI processes except the ![](media/image433.wmf) lowest-indexed
CSI processes for the serving cell associated with the request when the
UE has ![](media/image431.wmf) unreported CSI processes associated with
other aperiodic CSI requests for the serving cell, where a CSI process
associated with a CSI request shall only be counted as unreported in a
subframe/slot/subslot before the subframe/slot/subslot where the PUSCH
carrying the corresponding CSI is transmitted, and
![](media/image434.wmf) is the maximum number of CSI processes supported
by the UE for the serving cell corresponding to
subframe/slot/subslot-PUSCH, and:

\- for FDD serving cell ![](media/image435.wmf);

\- for TDD serving cell

\- if the UE is configured with four CSI processes for the serving cell
, ![](media/image436.wmf)

\- if the UE is configured with two or three CSI processes for the
serving cell, ![](media/image437.wmf).

If more than one value of ![](media/image434.wmf) is included in the
*UE-EUTRA-Capability*, the UE assumes a value of ![](media/image434.wmf)
that is consistent with its CSI process configuration. If more than one
consistent value of ![](media/image434.wmf) exists, the UE may assume
any one of the consistent values.

If a UE is configured with multiple cell groups, and if the UE receives
multiple aperiodic CSI report requests in a subframe for different cell
groups triggering more than one CSI report, the UE is not required to
update CSI for more than 5 CSI processes from the CSI processes
corresponding to all the triggered CSI reports.

If a UE is configured with a PUCCH-SCell, and if the UE receives
multiple aperiodic CSI report requests in a subframe for both the
primary PUCCH group and the secondary PUCCH group triggering more than
one CSI report, the UE is not required to update CSI for more than 5 CSI
processes from the CSI processes corresponding to all the triggered CSI
reports, in case the total number of serving cells in the primary and
secondary PUCCH group is no more than 5. If a UE is configured with more
than 5 serving cells, and if the UE receives aperiodic CSI report
request in a subframe triggering more than ![](media/image438.wmf)CSI
reports, the UE is not required to update CSI for more than
![](media/image339.wmf) CSI processes from the CSI processes
corresponding to all the triggered CSI reports, where the value of
![](media/image339.wmf)is given by *nMaxProc-r14* if
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* is configured for at least one CSI process for
which aperiodic CSI report is requested, otherwise, by
*maxNumberUpdatedCSI-Proc-r13.*

Table 7.2.1-1A: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with uplink
DCI format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'00\'                       No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'01\'                       Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'10\'                       Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of serving cells configured by higher layers
  \'11\'                       Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of serving cells configured by higher layers
  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1B: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with uplink
DCI format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'00\'                       No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'01\'                       Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'10\'                       Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers
  \'11\'                       Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers
  ---------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1C: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH with
uplink DCI format in UE specific search space

  -------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Value of CSI request field**   **Description**
  \'00\'                           No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'01\'                           Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'10\'                           Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers
  \'11\'                           Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers
  -------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1D: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with uplink
DCI format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'000\'                      No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'001\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'010\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers
  \'011\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers
  \'100\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 3^rd^ set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers
  \'101\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 4^th^ set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers
  \'110\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 5^th^ set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers
  \'111\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 6^th^ set of CSI process(es) configured by higher layers
  ---------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1E: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with uplink
DCI format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'000\'                      No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'001\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'010\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers
  \'011\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers
  \'100\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 3^rd^ set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers
  \'101\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 4^th^ set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers
  \'110\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 5^th^ set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers
  \'111\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 6^th^ set of CSI process(es) and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set}-pair(s) configured by higher layers
  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1F: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with uplink
DCI format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'000\'                      No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'001\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'010\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'011\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 3^rd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'100\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 4^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'101\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 5^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'110\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 6^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'111\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 7^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1G: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with uplink
DCI format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'000\'                      No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'001\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'010\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'011\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 3^rd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'100\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 4^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'101\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 5^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'110\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 6^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'111\'                      Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 7^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1H: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH with uplink DCI
format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'0000\'                     No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'0001\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'0010\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0011\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0100\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 3^rd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0101\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 4^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0110\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 5^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0111\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 6^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1000\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 7^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1001\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 8^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1010\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 9^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1011\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 10^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1100\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 11^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1101\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 12^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1110\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 13^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1111\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 14^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1I: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH with uplink DCI
format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'0000\'                     No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'0001\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'0010\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0011\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0100\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 3^rd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0101\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 4^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0110\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 5^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'0111\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 6^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1000\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 7^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1001\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 8^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1010\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 9^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1011\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 10^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1100\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 11^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1101\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 12^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1110\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 13^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'1111\'                     Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 14^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1J: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH with uplink DCI
format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'00000\'                    No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'00001\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'00010\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00011\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00100\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 3^rd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00101\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 4^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00110\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 5^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00111\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 6^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01000\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 7^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01001\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 8^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01010\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 9^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01011\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 10^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01100\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 11^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01101\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 12^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01110\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 13^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01111\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 14^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10000\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 15^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10001\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 16^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10010\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 17^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10011\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 18^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10100\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 19^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10101\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 20^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10110\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 21^st^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10111\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 22^nd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11000\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 23^rd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11001\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 24^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11010\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 25^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11011\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 26^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11100\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 27^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11101\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 28^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11110\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 29^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11111\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 30^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.1-1K: CSI Request field for PDCCH/EPDCCH with uplink DCI
format in UE specific search space

  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value of CSI request field   Description
  \'00000\'                    No aperiodic CSI report is triggered
  \'00001\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers for serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)
  \'00010\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 1^st^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00011\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 2^nd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00100\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 3^rd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00101\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 4^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00110\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 5^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'00111\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 6^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01000\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 7^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01001\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 8^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01010\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 9^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01011\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 10^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01100\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 11^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01101\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 12^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01110\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 13^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'01111\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 14^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10000\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 15^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10001\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 16^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10010\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 17^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10011\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 18^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10100\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 19^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10101\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 20^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10110\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 21^st^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'10111\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 22^nd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11000\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 23^rd^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11001\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 24^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11010\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 25^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11011\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 26^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11100\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 27^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11101\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 28^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11110\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 29^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  \'11111\'                    Aperiodic CSI report is triggered for a 30^th^ set of {CSI process, CSI-RS resource} and/or {CSI process, CSI subframe set, CSI-RS resource} configured by higher layers
  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: PDCCH/EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI formats used to grant PUSCH
transmissions as given by DCI format 0, DCI format 4, DCI format 6-0A
and DCI format 7-0A/7-0B are herein referred to as uplink DCI format
when common behaviour is addressed.

For a serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)that is not a LAA SCell, and a
non-BL/CE UE, when the CSI request field from an uplink DCI format other
than 7-0A/7-0B is set to trigger a report,

\- for FDD *k=3* if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime,* and the corresponding DCI format is mapped onto
the UE-specific search space and *k=4* otherwise,

\- for TDD UL/DL configuration 1-6, *k* is given in Table 8-2,

\- for TDD UL/DL configuration 0,

\- if the MSB of the UL index is set to 1 and LSB of the UL index is set
to 0, *k* is given in Table 8-2i if the UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *shortProcessingTime,* and the corresponding DCI format
is mapped onto the UE-specific search space, in Table 8-2 otherwise; or

\- if MSB of the UL index is set to 0 and LSB of the UL index is set to
1, *k* is equal to 6 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime,* and the corresponding DCI format is mapped onto
the UE-specific search, 7 otherwise; or

\- if both MSB and LSB of the UL index is set to 1, *k* is given in
Table 8-2i if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime,* and the corresponding DCI format is mapped onto
the UE-specific search space, in Table 8-2 otherwise.

For a serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf), when the CSI request field
from an uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B is set to trigger a report, for

\- FDD, if the UE is configured for subslot uplink transmissions, *k* is
determined based on higher layer configuration from
![](media/image439.wmf), otherwise *k=4*.

\- TDD, k is given by table 8-2m, 8-2n, 8-2p according to the
corresponding special subframe configuration.

For TDD, if a UE is configured with more than one serving cell and if
the UL/DL configurations of at least two serving cells are different, or
if the UE is configured with the parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for at least one serving cell, or for
FDD-TDD and serving cell frame structure type 2, the \"TDD UL/DL
Configuration\" given in Table 8-2 refers to the UL-reference UL/DL
configuration (defined in Clause 8.0).

For a serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf)that is a LAA SCell, when the
CSI request field from an uplink DCI format is set to trigger a report,

-   ![](media/image440.wmf) corresponds to the scheduled PUSCH subframe
    determined in Clause 8.0 if the uplink DCI format is 0A/4A,

-   ![](media/image440.wmf) corresponds to the N-th scheduled PUSCH
    subframe determined in Clause 8.0 if the uplink DCI format is 0B/4B
    and ![](media/image441.wmf),

-   ![](media/image440.wmf) corresponds to the (N-1)-th scheduled PUSCH
    subframe determined in Clause 8.0 if the uplink DCI format is 0B/4B
    and ![](media/image442.wmf),

-   value of *N* is determined by the number of scheduled subframes
    field in the corresponding DCI format 0B/4B

For a non-BL/CE UE, when the CSI request field from a Random Access
Response Grant is set to trigger a report and is not reserved, *k* is
equal to ![](media/image443.wmf) if the UL delay field in Clause 6.2 is
set to zero, where ![](media/image444.wmf) is given in Clause 6.1.1. The
UE shall postpone aperiodic CSI reporting to the next available UL
subframe if the UL delay field is set to 1.

For a BL/CE UE, when the CSI request field from a Random Access Response
Grant is set to trigger a report and is not reserved, the subframe(s) in
which the corresponding aperiodic CSI reporting is transmitted is
determined according to Clause 6.1.1.

The minimum reporting interval for aperiodic reporting of CQI and PMI
and RI and CRI is 1 subframe. *The subband size for CQI shall be the
same for transmitter-receiver configurations with and without
precoding.*

*If a UE is not configured for simultaneous PUSCH and PUCCH
transmission, when aperiodic CSI report with no transport block
associated as defined in Clause 8.6.2 and positive SR is transmitted in
the same subframe/slot/subslot, the UE shall transmit SR, and, if
applicable, HARQ-ACK, on PUCCH resources as described in Clause 10.1*

A UE is semi-statically configured by higher layers to feed back CQI and
PMI and corresponding RI and CRI on the same PUSCH using one of the
following CSI reporting modes given in Table 7.2.1-1 and described
below. For a BL/CE UE the UE shall not transmit the RI for any CSI
reporting mode in Table 7.2.1-1.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *FeCoMPCSIEnabled* for
a CSI process the reported CRI value can take on values 0, 1, 2. For CRI
value of 2, then 2 sets of PMI/CQI/RI are reported, one set for each of
the configured CSI-RS resources. The combinations of the reported RIs
are restricted to the following sets *{1,1}, {1,2}, {2,1}, {2,2}, {2,3},
{3,2}, {3,3}, {3,4}, {4,3}, {4,4} where {x,y} indicates RI value of x
corresponding to the first CSI-RS resource and RI value of y
corresponding to the second CSI-RS resource.*

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2*
is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource configured, one of the
following CSI reporting modes given in Table 7.2.1-1 is configured only
for *eMIMO-Type2* and for any CSI reporting mode in Table 7.2.1-1,

\- the UE shall not transmit CQI and second precoding matrix indicator
![](media/image445.wmf) for *eMIMO-Type*;

\- the UE shall not transmit RI for *eMIMO-Type* except if the maximum
number of supported layers for spatial multiplexing in DL by the UE is
more than 2, then UE feeds back a 1-bit RI according to Table 7.2.1-1L;

\- the UE shall transmit wideband first PMI for *eMIMO-Type.*

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\' with more than one
CSI-RS resource configured, and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with
one CSI-RS resource configured, one of the following CSI reporting modes
given in Table 7.2.1-1 is configured only for *eMIMO-Type2* and the UE
shall not transmit CQI, PMI, RI for *eMIMO-Type* and the UE shall
transmit CRI for *eMIMO-Type* for any CSI reporting mode in Table
7.2.1-1.

Table 7.2.1-1: CQI and PMI Feedback Types for PUSCH CSI reporting Modes

+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
|             |             | PMI         |            |             |
|             |             | Feedback    |            |             |
|             |             | Type        |            |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
|             |             | No PMI      | Single PMI | Multiple    |
|             |             |             |            | PMI         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PUSCH CQI   | *           | Mode 1-0    | Mode 1-1   | Mode 1-2    |
|             | *Wideband** |             |            |             |
| Feedback    |             |             |            |             |
| Type        | **(wideband |             |            |             |
|             | CQI)**      |             |            |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
|             | **UE        | Mode 2-0    |            | Mode 2-2    |
|             | Selected**  |             |            |             |
|             |             |             |            |             |
|             | **(subband  |             |            |             |
|             | CQI)**      |             |            |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
|             | **Higher    | Mode 3-0    | Mode 3-1   | Mode 3-2    |
|             | Layer-c     |             |            |             |
|             | onfigured** |             |            |             |
|             |             |             |            |             |
|             | **(subband  |             |            |             |
|             | CQI)**      |             |            |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+

Table 7.2.1-1L: Mapping of RI field to RI

  ------------------- ----
  Value of RI field   RI
  0                   1
  1                   3
  ------------------- ----

For non-BL/CE UE and for each of the transmission modes defined in
Clause 7.1, the following reporting modes are supported on PUSCH:

> Transmission mode 1 : Modes 2-0, 3-0, 1-0
>
> Transmission mode 2 : Modes 2-0, 3-0, 1-0
>
> Transmission mode 3 : Modes 2-0, 3-0, 1-0
>
> Transmission mode 4 : Modes 1-2, 2-2, 3-1, 3-2, 1-1
>
> Transmission mode 5 : Mode 3-1, 1-1
>
> Transmission mode 6 : Modes 1-2, 2-2, 3-1, 3-2, 1-1
>
> Transmission mode 7 : Modes 2-0, 3-0, 1-0
>
> Transmission mode 8 : Modes 1-2, 2-2, 3-1, 3-2, 1-1 if the UE is
> configured with PMI/RI reporting; modes 2-0, 3-0, 1-0 if the UE is
> configured without PMI/RI reporting
>
> Transmission mode 9 : Modes 1-2, 2-2, 3-1, 3-2, 1-1 if the UE is
> configured with PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS ports \> 1 and
> the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
> *advancedCodebookEnabled*; modes 1-2, 2-2, 3-1, 3-2 if the UE is
> configured with PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS ports \> 1 and
> the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
> *advancedCodebookEnabled*; modes 2-0, 3-0, 1-0 if the UE is configured
> without PMI/RI reporting or without PMI reporting or number of CSI-RS
> ports=1 or the number of CSI-RS ports in each of one or more CSI-RS
> resources in a CSI process is one when *eMIMO-Type* or *eMIMO-Type2*
> is set to \'CLASS B\'; modes 1-1, 3-1 if the UE is configured with
> higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop*.
>
> Transmission mode 10 : Modes 1-2, 2-2, 3-1, 3-2, 1-1 if the UE is
> configured with PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS ports \> 1 and
> the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
> *advancedCodebookEnabled*; modes 1-2, 2-2, 3-1, 3-2 if the UE is
> configured with PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS ports \> 1 and
> the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
> *advancedCodebookEnabled*; modes 2-0, 3-0, 1-0 if the UE is configured
> without PMI/RI reporting or without PMI reporting or number of CSI-RS
> ports=1 or the number of CSI-RS ports in each of one or more CSI-RS
> resources in a CSI process is one when *eMIMO-Type* or *eMIMO-Type2*
> is set to \'CLASS B\'; modes 1-1, 3-1 if the UE configured with higher
> layer parameter *semiOpenLoop*.

For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, the following reporting modes
are supported on PUSCH:

> Transmission mode 1 : Mode 2-0
>
> Transmission mode 2 : Mode 2-0
>
> Transmission mode 6 : Mode 2-0
>
> Transmission mode 9 : Mode 2-0

For Transmission mode 6 and a BL/CE UE configured with a C-RNTI, the
BL/CE UE reports CQI for the closed-loop with spatial multiplexing PDSCH
transmission scheme.

The aperiodic CSI reporting mode is given by the parameter
*cqi-ReportModeAperiodic* which is configured by higher-layer
signalling.

For a non-BL/CE UE, a serving cell with ![](media/image446.wmf), PUSCH
reporting modes are not supported for that serving cell.

For a non-BL/CE UE, RI is only reported for transmission modes 3 and 4,
*as well as transmission modes* 8, 9 and 10 with PMI/RI reporting, and
*transmission modes* 9 and 10 without PMI reporting.

For a BL/CE UE, RI is not reported.

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a
CSI process, the higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* in the rest of this
Clause refers to higher layer configured eMIMO type associated with the
value of CSI request field triggering aperiodic CSI reporting for the
CSI process.

For serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf), a UE configured in
transmission mode 10 with PMI/RI reporting or without PMI reporting for
a CSI process can be configured with a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for
the CSI process. If the UE is configured with a \'RI-reference CSI
process\' for the CSI process, the reported RI for the CSI process shall
be the same as the reported RI for the configured \'RI-reference CSI
process\'. The RI for the \'RI-reference CSI process\' is not based on
any other configured CSI process other than the \'RI-reference CSI
process\'. The UE is not expected to receive an aperiodic CSI report
request for a given subframe*/slot/subslot* triggering a CSI report
including CSI associated with the CSI process and not including CSI
associated with the configured \'RI-reference CSI process\'. If the UE
is configured with a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process and
if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are
configured by higher layers for only one of the CSI processes then the
UE is not expected to receive configuration for the CSI process
configured with the subframe subsets that have a different set of
restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction between the two
subframe sets. The UE is not expected to receive configurations for the
CSI process and the \'RI-reference CSI process\' that have a different:

\- Aperiodic CSI reporting mode, and/or

\- number of CSI-RS antenna ports, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction if
subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are
not configured by higher layers for both CSI processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction for
each subframe set if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by higher layers for both CSI
processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction if
subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are
configured by higher layers for only one of the CSI processes, and the
set of restricted RIs for the two subframe sets are the same, and/or

\- number of CSI-RS antenna ports for any two CSI-RS resources for the
two CSI processes, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of
configured CSI-RS resources is more than one for at least one of the two
CSI processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction for
any two CSI-RS resources for the two CSI processes, if a UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS resources is
more than one for at least one of the two CSI processes and if subframe
sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are not
configured by higher layers for both CSI processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction for
each subframe set and for any two CSI-RS resources for the two CSI
processes, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of
configured CSI-RS resources is more than one for at least one of the two
CSI processes and if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by higher layers for both CSI
processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction for
any two CSI-RS resources for the two CSI processes, if a UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS resources is
more than one for at least one of the two CSI processes and if subframe
sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are configured
by higher layers for only one of the CSI processes, and the set of
restricted RIs for the two subframe sets are the same.

For a non-BL/CE UE, a RI report for a serving cell on an aperiodic
reporting mode is valid only for CQI/PMI report or CQI report without
PMI reporting for that serving cell on that aperiodic reporting mode.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process,
if a UE is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* configured by higher
layers, except with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*,
and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\' and the number of configured
CSI-RS resources is more than one, and for a UE configured in
transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process, if a UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\' and higher
layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and the number
of activated CSI-RS resources is more than one, and the total number of
antenna ports across all configured CSI-RS resources is more than 15,
the UE on reception of an aperiodic CSI report request triggering a CSI
report in uplink subframe ![](media/image447.wmf) is not expected to
update CRI corresponding to the CSI process if CRI for the CSI process
has been reported and updated on or after subframe
![](media/image448.wmf).

-   Wideband feedback

    -   Mode 1-2 description:

    -   For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI
        process, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
        *eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter
        *csi-RS-NZP-mode [ ]{.underline} configured*, and *eMIMO-Type*
        is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS
        resources is more than one, and for a UE configured in
        transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process, if a UE is
        configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to
        \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
        \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources is
        more than one, the UE shall report one wideband CRI which is
        calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

    -   For each subband a preferred precoding matrix is selected from
        the codebook subset assuming transmission only in the subband

    -   A UE shall report one wideband CQI value per codeword which is
        calculated assuming the use of the corresponding selected
        precoding matrix in each subband and transmission on set *S*
        subbands. The UE shall report the selected precoding matrix
        indicator for each set *S* subband except with

        -   8 CSI-RS ports configured for transmission modes 9 and 10 or
            with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10, in which case a first
            precoding matrix indicator ![](media/image449.wmf)is
            reported for the set *S* subbands and a second precoding
            matrix indicator ![](media/image445.wmf) is reported for
            each set *S* subband, if the UE is not configured with
            higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* or
            *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or UE is configured in
            transmission mode 9 or 10 and
            *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and reported
            ![](media/image450.wmf), or UE reports CRI, or UE is
            configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
            \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured, and except
            with higher layer parameter
            *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured.

        -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
            higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
            to \'CLASS A\', in which case a first precoding matrix
            indicator ![](media/image449.wmf) is reported for the set
            *S* subbands and a second precoding matrix indicator
            ![](media/image445.wmf) is reported for each set *S*
            subband, if the UE is not configured with higher layer
            parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or UE is configured
            with higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*,
            and reported ![](media/image450.wmf).

        -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
            higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and
            reported ![](media/image451.wmf), in which case a first
            precoding matrix indicator ![](media/image449.wmf) is
            reported for the set *S* subbands, a relative power
            indicator ![](media/image416.wmf) is reported for the set
            *S* subbands and a second precoding matrix indicator
            ![](media/image445.wmf) is reported for each set *S*
            subband.

    -   Subband size is given by Table 7.2.1-3A when the CSI request
        field from an uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B is set to trigger a
        report, Table 7.2.1-3 otherwise.

    -   For transmission modes 4, 8, 9 and 10, the reported PMI and CQI
        values and RPI value (if reported) are calculated conditioned on
        the reported RI. For other transmission modes they are reported
        conditioned on rank 1. If CRI is reported, the reported PMI,
        CQI, and RI values are calculated conditioned on the reported
        CRI.

    -   Mode 1-1 description:

        -   For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a
            CSI process, if a UE is configured with higher layer
            parameter *eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter
            *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
            \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS resources
            is more than one, and for a UE configured in transmission
            mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process, if a UE is configured
            with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\'
            and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
            \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources
            is more than one, the UE shall report one wideband CRI which
            is calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

        -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
            subset assuming transmission on set S subbands

        -   A UE shall report a wideband CQI value per codeword which is
            calculated assuming the use of the single precoding matrix
            in all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands

        -   The UE shall report the selected single precoding matrix
            indicator except with

            -   8 CSI-RS ports configured for transmission modes 9 and
                10 or with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE*
                configured for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10, in which
                case a first and second precoding matrix indicator are
                reported corresponding to the selected single precoding
                matrix, if the UE is not configured with higher layer
                parameter *eMIMO-Type*, or UE reports CRI, or UE is
                configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with higher
                layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
                \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured, and
                except with higher layer parameter
                *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured
                or when higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop* is
                configured and RI\<3, in which case a first precoding
                matrix indicator is reported corresponding to the
                selected single precoding matrix.

            -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
                higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
                set to \'CLASS A\', in which case a first and second
                precoding matrix indicator are reported corresponding to
                the selected single precoding matrix, except when higher
                layer parameter *semiOpenLoop* is configured and
                RI\<3*,* in which case a first precoding matrix
                indicator is reported corresponding to the selected
                single precoding matrix.

        -   For transmission modes 4, 8, 9 and 10, the reported PMI and
            CQI values are calculated conditioned on the reported RI.
            For other transmission modes they are reported conditioned
            on rank 1. If CRI is reported, the reported PMI, CQI, and RI
            values are calculated conditioned on the reported CRI.

    -   Mode 1-0 description:

    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and UE is
        configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* for a CSI
        process, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number
        of CSI-RS antenna ports in at least one of the one or more
        configured CSI-RS resource is more than one,

        -   If the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
            *csi-RS-NZP-mode*, and the number of configured CSI-RS
            resources is more than one, or the UE is configured with
            higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
            \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources
            is more than one, the UE shall report one wideband CRI which
            is calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

        -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
            subset assuming transmission on set S subbands

        -   A UE shall report a wideband CQI value per codeword which is
            calculated assuming the use of the single precoding matrix
            in all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands

        -   The selected precoding matrix, and reported CQI values are
            calculated conditioned on the reported RI. If CRI is
            reported, the selected precoding matrix, reported CQI, and
            RI values are calculated conditioned on the reported CRI

> otherwise,

-   For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI
    process, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
    *eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode
    [configured]{.underline}*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\',
    and the number of configured CSI-RS resources is more than one, and
    for a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI
    process, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
    *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter
    *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and the number of activated
    CSI-RS resources is more than one, the UE shall report one wideband
    CRI which is calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

-   A UE shall report a wideband CQI value which is calculated assuming
    transmission on set *S* subbands

-   The wideband CQI represents channel quality for the first codeword,
    even when RI\>1*.*

-   For transmission mode 3 the reported CQI value is calculated
    conditioned on the reported RI. For other transmission modes they
    are reported conditioned on rank 1. If CRI is reported, the reported
    CQI values are calculated conditioned on the reported CRI.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Higher Layer-configured subband feedback

    -   Mode 3-0 description:

    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and UE is
        configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* for a CSI
        process, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number
        of CSI-RS antenna ports in at least one of the one or more
        configured CSI-RS resource is more than one,

        -   If the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
            *csi-RS-NZP-mode*, and the number of configured CSI-RS
            resources is more than one, or the UE is configured with
            higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
            \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources
            is more than one, the UE shall report one wideband CRI which
            is calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

        -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
            subset assuming transmission on set S subbands

        -   A UE shall report one subband CQI value per codeword for
            each set *S* subband which are calculated assuming the use
            of the single precoding matrix in all subbands and assuming
            transmission in the corresponding subband.

        -   A UE shall report a wideband CQI value per codeword which is
            calculated assuming the use of the single precoding matrix
            in all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands

        -   The selected precoding matrix, and reported CQI values are
            calculated conditioned on the reported RI. If CRI is
            reported, the selected precoding matrix, reported CQI, and
            RI values are calculated conditioned on the reported CRI

> otherwise,

-   For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI
    process, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
    *eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode
    [configured]{.underline}*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\',
    and the number of configured CSI-RS resources is more than one, and
    for a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI
    process, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
    *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter
    *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and the number of activated
    CSI-RS resources is more than one, the UE shall report one wideband
    CRI which is calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

-   A UE shall report a wideband CQI value which is calculated assuming
    transmission on set *S* subbands

-   The UE shall also report one subband CQI value for each set *S*
    subband. The subband CQI value is calculated assuming transmission
    only in the subband

-   Both the wideband and subband CQI represent channel quality for the
    first codeword, even when RI\>1*.*

-   For transmission mode 3 the reported CQI values are calculated
    conditioned on the reported RI. For other transmission modes they
    are reported conditioned on rank 1. If CRI is reported, the reported
    CQI values are calculated conditioned on the reported CRI.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Mode 3-1 description:

    -   For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI
        process, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
        *eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter
        *csi-RS-NZP-mode [configured]{.underline}*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
        set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS
        resources is more than one, and for a UE configured in
        transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process, if a UE is
        configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to
        \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
        \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources is
        more than one, the UE shall report one wideband CRI which is
        calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

    -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook subset
        assuming transmission on set S subbands

    -   A UE shall report one subband CQI value per codeword for each
        set *S* subband which are calculated assuming the use of the
        single precoding matrix in all subbands and assuming
        transmission in the corresponding subband.

    -   A UE shall report a wideband CQI value per codeword which is
        calculated assuming the use of the single precoding matrix in
        all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands

    -   The UE shall report the selected single precoding matrix
        indicator except with,

        -   8 CSI-RS ports configured for transmission modes 9 and 10 or
            with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10, in which case a first
            and second precoding matrix indicator are reported
            corresponding to the selected single precoding matrix, if
            the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type* or *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or UE is
            configured in transmission mode 9 or 10 and
            *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and reported
            ![](media/image450.wmf), or UE reports CRI, or UE is
            configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
            \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured, and except
            with higher layer parameter
            *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured, or
            when higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop* is configured and
            RI\<3, in which case a first precoding matrix indicator is
            reported corresponding to the selected single precoding
            matrix.

        -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
            higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
            to \'CLASS A\', in which case a first and second precoding
            matrix indicator are reported corresponding to the selected
            single precoding matrix if the UE is not configured with
            higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or UE is
            configured with higher layer parameter
            *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and reported
            ![](media/image450.wmf), except when higher layer parameter
            *semiOpenLoop* is configured and RI\<3*,* in which case a
            first precoding matrix indicator is reported corresponding
            to the selected single precoding matrix.

        -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
            higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and
            reported ![](media/image451.wmf), in which case a first and
            second precoding matrix indicator and relative power
            indicator are reported corresponding to the selected single
            precoding matrix.

    -   For transmission modes 4, 8, 9 and 10, the reported PMI and CQI
        values and RPI value (if reported) are calculated conditioned on
        the reported RI. For other transmission modes they are reported
        conditioned on rank 1. If CRI is reported, the reported PMI,
        CQI, and RI values are calculated conditioned on the reported
        CRI.

-   Mode 3-2 description:

    -   For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI
        process, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
        *eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter
        *csi-RS-NZP-mode [configured]{.underline}*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
        set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS
        resources is more than one, and for a UE configured in
        transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process, if a UE is
        configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to
        \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
        \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources is
        more than one, the UE shall report one wideband CRI which is
        calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

    -   For each subband a preferred precoding matrix is selected from
        the codebook subset assuming transmission only in the subband

    -   A UE shall report one wideband CQI value per codeword which is
        calculated assuming the use of the corresponding selected
        precoding matrix in each subband and transmission on set *S*
        subbands.

    -   A UE shall report the selected single precoding matrix indicator
        for each set *S* subband except with,

        -   8 CSI-RS ports configured for transmission mode 9 and 10, or
            with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10, in which case the UE
            shall report a first precoding matrix indicator for all set
            *S* subbands and also report a second precoding matrix
            indicator for each set S subband, if the UE is not
            configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* or
            *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or UE is configured in
            transmission mode 9 or 10 and
            *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and reported
            ![](media/image450.wmf), or UE reports CRI, or UE is
            configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
            \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured, and except
            with higher layer parameter
            *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured.

        -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
            higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
            to \'CLASS A\', in which case a first precoding matrix
            indicator ![](media/image449.wmf) is reported for the set
            *S* subbands and a second precoding matrix indicator
            ![](media/image445.wmf) is reported for each set *S* subband
            if the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
            *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or UE is configured with higher
            layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and reported
            ![](media/image450.wmf).

        -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
            higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and
            reported ![](media/image451.wmf), in which case a first
            precoding matrix indicator ![](media/image449.wmf) is
            reported for the set *S* subbands, a relative power
            indicator ![](media/image416.wmf) is reported for the set
            *S* subbands, and a second precoding matrix indicator
            ![](media/image445.wmf) is reported for each set *S*
            subband.

    -   A UE shall report one subband CQI value per codeword for each
        set *S* subband reflecting transmission over the single subband
        and using the selected precoding matrix in the corresponding
        subband.

    -   For transmission modes 4, 8, 9 and 10, the reported PMI and CQI
        values and RPI value (if reported) are calculated conditioned on
        the reported RI. For transmission mode 6 they are reported
        conditioned on rank 1. If CRI is reported, the reported PMI,
        CQI, and RI values are calculated conditioned on the reported
        CRI.

-   Subband CQI value for each codeword are encoded differentially with
    > respect to their respective wideband CQI using 2-bits as defined
    > by

    -   Subband differential CQI offset level = subband CQI index --
        wideband CQI index. *The mapping from the 2-bit subband
        differential CQI value to the offset level is shown in Table
        7.2.1-2.*

Table 7.2.1-2: Mapping subband differential CQI value to offset level

  -------------------------------- --------------
  Subband differential CQI value   Offset level
  0                                0
  1                                1
  2                                ≥2
  3                                ≤-1
  -------------------------------- --------------

-   Supported subband size (*k*) is given in Table 7.2.1-3A when the CSI
    > request field from an uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B is set to
    > trigger a report, in Table 7.2.1-3 otherwise.

Table 7.2.1-3: Subband Size (*k*) vs. System Bandwidth

  System Bandwidth          Subband Size
  ------------------------- --------------
  ![](media/image452.wmf)   (*k*)
  6 - 7                     NA
  8 - 10                    4
  11 - 26                   4
  27 - 63                   6
  64 - 110                  8

Table 7.2.1-3A: Subband Size (*k*) vs. System Bandwidth when the CSI
request field from an uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B is set to trigger a
report

  System Bandwidth          Subband Size
  ------------------------- --------------
  ![](media/image452.wmf)   (*k*)
  6 - 7                     NA
  8 - 10                    4
  11 - 26                   12
  27 - 63                   12
  64 - 110                  12

-   UE-selected subband feedback

    -   Mode 2-0 description:

    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and UE is
        configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* for a CSI
        process, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number
        of CSI-RS antenna ports in at least one of the one or more
        configured CSI-RS resource is more than one,

        -   If the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
            *csi-RS-NZP-mode*, and the number of configured CSI-RS
            resources is more than one, or the UE is configured with
            higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
            \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources
            is more than one, the UE shall report one wideband CRI which
            is calculated assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

        -   The UE shall perform joint selection of the set of *M*
            preferred subbands of size *k* within the set of subbands
            *S* and a preferred single precoding matrix selected from
            the codebook subset that is preferred to be used for
            transmission over the *M* selected subbands.

        -   The UE shall report one CQI value per codeword reflecting
            transmission only over the selected *M* preferred subbands
            and using the same selected single precoding matrix in each
            of the *M* subbands.

        -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
            subset assuming transmission on set S subbands

        -   A UE shall report a wideband CQI value per codeword which is
            calculated assuming the use of the single precoding matrix
            in all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands

        -   The selected precoding matrix, and reported CQI values are
            calculated conditioned on the reported RI. If CRI is
            reported, the selected precoding matrix, reported CQI, and
            RI values are calculated conditioned on the reported CRI.

    -   otherwise,

        -   For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a
            CSI process, if a UE is configured with higher layer
            parameter *eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter
            *csi-RS-NZP-mode [configured]{.underline}*, and *eMIMO-Type*
            is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS
            resources is more than one, and for a UE configured in
            transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process, if a UE is
            configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to
            \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set
            to \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS
            resources is more than one, the UE shall report one wideband
            CRI which is calculated assuming transmission on set *S*
            subbands.

        -   The UE shall select a set of *M* preferred subbands of size
            *k* (where *k* and *M* are given in Table 7.2.1-5 for each
            system bandwidth range) within the set of subbands *S*.

        -   The UE shall also report one CQI value reflecting
            transmission only over the *M* selected subbands determined
            in the previous step. The CQI represents channel quality for
            the first codeword, even when RI\>1.

        -   Additionally, the UE shall also report one wideband CQI
            value which is calculated assuming transmission on set *S*
            subbands. The wideband CQI represents channel quality for
            the first codeword, even when RI\>1.

        -   For transmission mode 3 the reported CQI values are
            calculated conditioned on the reported RI. For other
            transmission modes they are reported conditioned on rank 1.
            If CRI is reported, the reported CQI values are calculated
            conditioned on the reported CRI.

    -   Mode 2-2 description:

        -   For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a
            CSI process, if a UE is configured with higher layer
            parameter *eMIMO-Type*, except with higher layer parameter
            *csi-RS-NZP-mode [configured]{.underline}*, and *eMIMO-Type*
            is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS
            resources is more than one, and for a UE configured in
            transmission mode 9 or 10, and for a CSI process, if a UE is
            configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to
            \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set
            to \'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS
            resources is more than one, the UE shall report one wideband
            CRI which is calculated assuming transmission on set *S*
            subbands.

        -   The UE shall perform joint selection of the set of *M*
            preferred subbands of size *k* within the set of subbands
            *S* and a preferred single precoding matrix selected from
            the codebook subset that is preferred to be used for
            transmission over the *M* selected subbands.

        -   The UE shall report one CQI value per codeword reflecting
            transmission only over the selected *M* preferred subbands
            and using the same selected single precoding matrix in each
            of the *M* subbands.

        -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
            subset assuming transmission on set S subbands

        -   A UE shall report a wideband CQI value per codeword which is
            calculated assuming the use of the single precoding matrix
            in all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands

        -   The UE shall report the selected single precoding matrix
            indicator preferred for the *M* selected subbands and the
            selected single precoding matrix indicator for all set *S*
            subbands except with,

            -   8 CSI-RS ports configured for transmission modes 9 and
                10 or with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE*
                configured for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10, in which
                case the UE shall report a first precoding matrix
                indicator for all set *S* subbands, a second precoding
                matrix indicator for all set *S* subbands and another
                second precoding matrix indicator for the *M* selected
                subbands, if the UE is not configured with higher layer
                parameter *eMIMO-Type* or *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or
                UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10 and
                *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and reported
                ![](media/image450.wmf), or UE reports CRI, or UE is
                configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with higher
                layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
                \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured, and
                except with higher layer parameter
                *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured.

            -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
                higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
                set to \'CLASS A\', in which case the UE shall report a
                first precoding matrix indicator ![](media/image449.wmf)
                for all set *S* subbands, a second precoding matrix
                indicator ![](media/image445.wmf) for all set *S*
                subbands and another second precoding matrix indicator
                ![](media/image445.wmf) for or the *M* selected subbands
                if the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
                *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or UE is configured with
                higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*,
                and reported ![](media/image450.wmf).

            -   UE is configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and with
                higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*,
                and reported ![](media/image451.wmf), in which case the
                UE shall report a first precoding matrix indicator
                ![](media/image449.wmf) for all set *S* subbands, a
                relative power indicator ![](media/image416.wmf) is
                reported for all set *S* subbands, a second precoding
                matrix indicator ![](media/image445.wmf) for all set *S*
                subbands and another second precoding matrix indicator
                ![](media/image445.wmf) for or the *M* selected
                subbands.

        -   For transmission modes 4, 8, 9 and 10, the reported PMI and
            CQI values and RPI value (if reported) are calculated
            conditioned on the reported RI. For other transmission modes
            they are reported conditioned on rank 1. If CRI is reported,
            the reported PMI, CQI, and RI values are calculated
            conditioned on the reported CRI.

    -   For all UE-selected subband feedback modes the UE shall report
        > the positions of the *M* selected subbands using a
        > combinatorial index *r* defined as

        -   ![](media/image453.wmf)

        -   where the set ![](media/image454.wmf),
            (![](media/image455.wmf)) contains the *M* sorted subband
            indices and ![](media/image283.wmf) is the extended binomial
            coefficient, resulting in unique label
            ![](media/image456.wmf).

    -   The CQI value for the *M* selected subbands for each codeword is
        > encoded differentially using 2-bits relative to its respective
        > wideband CQI as defined by

        -   Differential CQI offset level = *M* selected subbands CQI
            index -- wideband CQI index

        -   *The mapping from the 2-bit differential CQI value to the
            offset level is shown in Table 7.2.1-4.*

Table 7.2.1-4: Mapping differential CQI value to offset level

  ------------------------ --------------
  Differential CQI value   Offset level
  0                        ≤1
  1                        2
  2                        3
  3                        ≥4
  ------------------------ --------------

-   Supported subband size *k* and *M* values include those shown in
    > Table 7.2.1-5A when the CSI request field from an uplink DCI
    > format 7-0A/7-0B is set to trigger a report, in Table 7.2.1-5
    > otherwise. In Table 7.2.1-5 the *k* and *M* values are a function
    > of system bandwidth.

-   The number of bits to denote the position of the *M* selected
    > subbands is ![](media/image457.wmf).

For a BL/CE UE, the reported CQI values are calculated conditioned on
rank 1.

\- UE-selected subband feedback

\- Mode 2-0 description:

\- The UE shall report one wideband CQI value which is calculated
assuming transmission on all narrowband(s) in the CSI reference
resource.

\- If frequency hopping is configured for MPDCCH,

\- the UE shall select *M*=1 preferred narrowband defined in Clause
6.2.7 of \[3\] within the set of narrowband(s) in which MPDCCH is
monitored.

\- the UE shall also report one CQI value reflecting transmission only
over the selected narrowband determined in the previous step.

\- The CQI value for the *M*=1 selected narrowband is encoded
differentially using 2-bits relative to its respective wideband CQI as
defined by

\- Differential CQI offset level = selected narrowband CQI index --
wideband CQI index

*- The mapping from the 2-bit differential CQI value to the offset level
is shown in Table 7.2.1-4.*

\- the UE shall report the positions of the *M*=1 selected narrowband
according to Table 7.2.1-6.

\- otherwise,

\- the UE shall report a Differential CQI value = 0 and a position of
the *M*=1 selected narrowband according to Table 7.2.1-6.

Table 7.2.1-5: Subband Size (*k*) and Number of Subbands (*M*) in S vs.
Downlink System Bandwidth

  System Bandwidth          Subband Size *k* (RBs)   *M*
  ------------------------- ------------------------ -----
  ![](media/image458.wmf)                            
  6 -- 7                    NA                       NA
  8 -- 10                   2                        1
  11 -- 26                  2                        3
  27 -- 63                  3                        5
  64 -- 110                 4                        6

Table 7.2.1-5A: Subband Size (*k*) and Number of Subbands (*M*) in S vs.
Downlink System Bandwidth when the CSI request field from an uplink DCI
format 7-0A/7-0B is set to trigger a report

  System Bandwidth          Subband Size *k* (RBs)   *M*
  ------------------------- ------------------------ -----
  ![](media/image458.wmf)                            
  6 -- 7                    NA                       NA
  8 -- 11                   4                        1
  12 -- 26                  12                       1
  27 -- 63                  12                       2
  64 -- 110                 12                       4

Table 7.2.1-6: Reporting UE selected narrowband position for BL/CE UEs

  Number of narrowbands for MPDCCH monitoring   UE reported bit(s) for narrowband position (MSB, LSB)   MPDCCH Narrowband Reported
  --------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
  1                                             0                                                       The narrowband used for MPDCCH monitoring
  2                                             0                                                       Narrowband with lowest narrowband index
                                                1                                                       Narrowband with highest narrowband index
  4                                             00                                                      Narrowband with lowest narrowband index
                                                01                                                      Narrowband with second lowest narrowband index
                                                10                                                      Narrowband with third lowest narrowband index
                                                11                                                      Narrowband with highest narrowband index

###  7.2.2 Periodic CSI Reporting using PUCCH

A UE is semi-statically configured by higher layers to periodically feed
back different CSI components (CQI, PMI, PTI, CRI, and/or RI) on the
PUCCH using the reporting modes given in Table 7.2.2-1 and described
below. A UE in transmission mode 10 can be configured by higher layers
for multiple periodic CSI reports corresponding to one or more CSI
processes per serving cell on PUCCH.

A BL/CE UE configured with CEModeB is not expected to be configured with
periodic CSI report.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2*
is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource configured,

\- one of the following CSI reporting modes given in Table 7.2.2-1 is
configured only for *eMIMO-Type2*

\- the UE shall not transmit CQI, PTI, and second precoding matrix
indicator ![](media/image445.wmf) for *eMIMO-Type* for any CSI reporting
mode in Table 7.2.2-1

\- the UE shall not transmit RI for *eMIMO-Type* and for any CSI
reporting mode in Table 7.2.2-1 except if the maximum number of
supported layers for spatial multiplexing in DL supported by the UE is
more than 2, then UE feeds back a 1-bit RI according to Table 7.2.1-1L

\- the UE shall report a type 2a report consisting of wideband first PMI
if RI is not transmitted, otherwise type 5 report consisting of jointly
coded RI and a wideband first PMI for *eMIMO-Type* for any CSI reporting
mode in Table 7.2.2-1, as described below.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\' with more than one
CSI-RS resource configured, and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with
one CSI-RS resource configured, one of the following CSI reporting modes
given in Table 7.2.2-1 is configured only for *eMIMO-Type2* and the UE
shall not transmit CQI, PMI, PTI, RI for *eMIMO-Type* for any CSI
reporting mode in Table 7.2.2-1 and the UE shall report a type10 report
consisting of CRI as described below.

If a UE is configured with higher layer configured parameter
*semiOpenLoop,* except with 2 CSI-RS ports or with 4 CSI-RS ports and
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=FALSE*, the UE shall report a type
2a report consisting of wideband first PMI for CSI reporting modes 1-1
and 2-1 in Table 7.2.2-1, as described below.

Table 7.2.2-1: CQI and PMI Feedback Types for PUCCH CSI reporting Modes

+---------------+----------------+-------------------+------------+
|               |                | PMI Feedback Type |            |
+---------------+----------------+-------------------+------------+
|               |                | No PMI            | Single PMI |
+---------------+----------------+-------------------+------------+
| PUCCH CQI     | Wideband       | Mode 1-0          | Mode 1-1   |
|               |                |                   |            |
| Feedback Type | (wideband CQI) |                   |            |
+---------------+----------------+-------------------+------------+
|               | UE Selected    | Mode 2-0          | Mode 2-1   |
|               |                |                   |            |
|               | (subband CQI)  |                   |            |
+---------------+----------------+-------------------+------------+

For a non-BL/CE UE and for each of the transmission modes defined in
Clause 7.1, the following periodic CSI reporting modes are supported on
PUCCH:

> Transmission mode 1 : Modes 1-0, 2-0
>
> Transmission mode 2 : Modes 1-0, 2-0
>
> Transmission mode 3 : Modes 1-0, 2-0
>
> Transmission mode 4 : Modes 1-1, 2-1
>
> Transmission mode 5 : Modes 1-1, 2-1
>
> Transmission mode 6 : Modes 1-1, 2-1
>
> Transmission mode 7 : Modes 1-0, 2-0
>
> Transmission mode 8 : Modes 1-1, 2-1 if the UE is configured with
> PMI/RI reporting; modes 1-0, 2-0 if the UE is configured without
> PMI/RI reporting
>
> Transmission mode 9 : Modes 1-1, 2-1 if the UE is configured with
> PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS ports\>1 and the UE is not
> configured with higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or
> the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop*; mode
> 1-1 if the UE is configured with PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS
> ports\>1 and the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
> *advancedCodebookEnabled*; modes 1-0, 2-0 if the UE is configured
> without PMI/RI reporting or without PMI reporting or number of CSI-RS
> ports=1 or the number of CSI-RS ports in each of one or more CSI-RS
> resources in a CSI process is one when *eMIMO-Type* or *eMIMO-Type2*
> is set to be \'CLASS B\'.
>
> Transmission mode 10 : Modes 1-1, 2-1 if the UE is configured with
> PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS ports\>1 and the UE is not
> configured with higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or
> the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop*; mode
> 1-1 if the UE is configured with PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS
> ports\>1 and the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
> *advancedCodebookEnabled*; modes 1-0, 2-0 if the UE is configured
> without PMI/RI reporting or without PMI reporting or number of CSI-RS
> ports=1 or the number of CSI-RS ports in each of one or more CSI-RS
> resources in a CSI process is one when *eMIMO-Type* or *eMIMO-Type2*
> is set to be \'CLASS B\'.

For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA, the following periodic CSI
reporting modes are supported on PUCCH:

> Transmission mode 1 : Mode 1-0
>
> Transmission mode 2 : Mode 1-0
>
> Transmission mode 6 : Mode 1-1
>
> Transmission mode 9 : Modes 1-1, 1-0 if the UE is not configured with
> higher layer parameter *ce-CSI-RS-Feedback*; mode 1-1 if the UE is
> configured with PMI/RI reporting and number of CSI-RS ports=8 and the
> UE is configured with higher layer parameter *ce-CSI-RS-Feedback*.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 1-9, one periodic CSI reporting
mode for each activated serving cell is configured by higher-layer
signalling. Additionally, one periodic CSI reporting mode can be
configured by higher-layer signalling for each dormant serving cell.

For a UE configured in transmission mode 10, one or more periodic CSI
reporting modes for each serving cell are configured by higher-layer
signalling. Additionally, one periodic CSI reporting mode can be
configured by higher-layer signalling for each dormant serving cell.

For UE in transmission mode 9 and the UE configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type*, the term \'CSI process\' in this Clause refers
to the CSI configured for the UE.

For a UE configured with transmission mode 9 or 10, and with 8 CSI-RS
ports, if the UE is not configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher
layers , or the UE is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher
layers, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource
configured, and except with higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured, or the UE is
configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type2* by higher layers, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and except with higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured,or the UE is
configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and more than one CSI-RS resource
configured, and at least one CSI-RS resource with 8 CSI-RS ports, mode
1-1 is configured to be either submode 1 or submode 2 via higher-layer
signaling using the parameter *PUCCH\_format1-1\_CSI\_reporting\_mode.*

For a UE configured with transmission mode 8, 9 or 10, and with
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured, if the UE is not
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, or the UE is
configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and except with higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured, or the UE is
configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type2* by higher layers, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and except with higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured, or the UE is
configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and more than one CSI-RS resource
configured, and at least one CSI-RS resource with 4 CSI-RS ports, mode
1-1 is configured to be either submode 1 or submode 2 via higher-layer
signaling using the parameter *PUCCH\_format1-1\_CSI\_reporting\_mode.*

For the UE-selected subband CQI, a CQI report in a certain subframe of a
certain serving cell describes the channel quality in a particular part
or in particular parts of the bandwidth of that serving cell described
subsequently as bandwidth part (BP) or parts. The bandwidth parts shall
be indexed in the order of increasing frequency and non-increasing sizes
starting at the lowest frequency.

For each serving cell

\- There are a total of *N* subbands for a serving cell system bandwidth
given by![](media/image459.wmf) where![](media/image460.wmf)subbands are
of size *k.* If ![](media/image461.wmf) then one of the subbands is of
size![](media/image462.wmf).

\- A bandwidth part *j* is frequency-consecutive and consists of
![](media/image463.wmf)subbands where *J* bandwidth parts span *S* or
![](media/image459.wmf) as given in Table 7.2.2-2. If
![](media/image464.wmf) then ![](media/image463.wmf)
is![](media/image465.wmf). If *J\>1* then ![](media/image463.wmf) is
either ![](media/image465.wmf) or ![](media/image466.wmf), depending
on![](media/image459.wmf), *k* and *J*.

\- Each bandwidth part *j*, where 0 ≤ *j* ≤ *J*-1, is scanned in
sequential order according to increasing frequency.

\- For UE selected subband feedback a single subband out of
![](media/image463.wmf) subbands of a bandwidth part is selected along
with a corresponding *L*-bit label indexed in the order of increasing
frequency, where![](media/image467.wmf).

The CQI and PMI payload sizes of each PUCCH CSI reporting mode are given
in Table 7.2.2-3.

The following CQI/PMI and RI reporting types with distinct periods and
offsets are supported for the PUCCH CSI reporting modes given in Table
7.2.2-3:

\- Type 1 report supports CQI feedback for the UE selected sub-bands

\- Type 1a report supports subband CQI and second PMI feedback

\- Type 2, Type 2b, and Type 2c report supports wideband CQI and PMI
feedback

\- Type 2a report supports wideband PMI feedback

\- Type 3 report supports RI feedback

\- Type 4 report supports wideband CQI

\- Type 5 report supports RI and wideband PMI feedback

\- Type 6 report supports RI and PTI feedback

\- Type 7 report support CRI and RI feedback

\- Type 8 report supports CRI, RI and wideband PMI feedback

\- Type 9 report supports CRI, RI and PTI feedback

\- Type 10 report supports CRI feedback

\- Type 11 report supports RI and RPI feedback

For a UE configured in transmission mode 1-9 and for each serving cell,
or for a UE configured in transmission mode 10 and for each CSI process
in each serving cell, the periodicity ![](media/image468.wmf) (in
subframes) and offset ![](media/image469.wmf) (in subframes) for CQI/PMI
reporting are determined based on the parameter *cqi-pmi-ConfigIndex*
(![](media/image470.wmf)) for the activated serving cells, given in
Table 7.2.2-1A for FDD or for FDD-TDD with primary cell frame structure
1 and Table 7.2.2-1C for TDD or for FDD-TDD and primary cell frame
structure type 2. For the dormant serving cells, is given by the
parameter *cqi-pmi-ConfigIndexDormant.* The periodicity
![](media/image471.wmf) and relative offset ![](media/image472.wmf) for
RI reporting are determined based on the parameter *ri-ConfigIndex*
(![](media/image473.wmf)) for the activated serving cells, given in
Table 7.2.2-1B. For the serving cells in the dormant state, is given by
the parameter *ri-ConfigIndexDormant.* For a UE configured in
transmission mode 9 and for each serving cell, or for a UE configured in
transmission mode 10 and for each CSI process in each serving cell, if
the UE is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers,
except with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS
resources is more than one, or the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and the number of activated
CSI-RS resources is more than one, when RI reporting is configured, the
periodicity ![](media/image474.wmf) for CRI reporting is determined
based on the parameter *cri-ConfigIndex* (![](media/image475.wmf)) given
in Table 7.2.2-1J. When the number of antenna ports in each configured
CSI-RS resource is one, the periodicity ![](media/image474.wmf) and
relative offset ![](media/image476.wmf)for CRI reporting are determined
based on the parameter *cri-ConfigIndex* (![](media/image475.wmf)) given
in Table 7.2.2-1K. If a UE is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2*, the parameters *cqi-pmi-ConfigIndex*, *ri-ConfigIndex*
are for *eMIMO-Type2*. If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\'
with more than one CSI-RS resource configured, and *eMIMO-Type2* is set
to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource configured, the parameter
c*ri-ConfigIndex* is for *eMIMO-Type*. If a UE is configured with
parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
\'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS
resource configured, the periodicity ![](media/image477.wmf) and
relative offset ![](media/image478.wmf) for wideband first PMI/RI
reporting for *eMIMO-Type* are determined based on the parameter
*periodicityOffsetIndex* (![](media/image479.wmf)) given in Table
7.2.2-1L. The parameters *cqi-pmi-ConfigIndex*,
*cqi-pmi-ConfigIndexDormant,* *ri-ConfigIndex, ri-ConfigIndexDormant,*
*periodicityOffsetIndex,* and *cri-ConfigIndex* are configured by higher
layer signalling. The relative reporting offset for RI
![](media/image472.wmf) takes values from the set
![](media/image480.wmf). If a UE is configured to report for more than
one CSI subframe set then parameter *cqi-pmi-ConfigIndex*,
*ri-ConfigIndex*, *periodicityOffsetIndex,* and *cri-ConfigIndex*
respectively correspond to the CQI/PMI, RI, PMI/RI, and CRI periodicity
and relative reporting offset for subframe set 1 and
*cqi-pmi-ConfigIndex2*, *ri-ConfigIndex*2, *periodicityOffsetIndex2,*
and *cri-ConfigIndex*2 respectively correspond to the CQI/PMI, RI,
PMI/RI, and CRI periodicity and relative reporting offset for subframe
set 2. For a UE configured with transmission mode 10, the parameters
*cqi-pmi-ConfigIndex* , *ri-ConfigIndex*, *periodicityOffsetIndex,
cri-ConfigIndex*, *cqi-pmi-ConfigIndex2*, *ri-ConfigIndex*2,
*periodicityOffsetIndex2,* and *cri-ConfigIndex*2 can be configured for
each CSI process. A BL/CE UE is not expected to be configured with the
parameter *ri-ConfigIndex*.

In the case where wideband CQI/PMI reporting is configured:

\- The reporting instances for wideband CQI/PMI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image481.wmf)*.*

\- For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and UE configured
with the parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, and *eMIMO-Type* set
to \'CLASS A\', and UE not configured with the parameter *eMIMO-Type2*,
the reporting interval of wideband first PMI reporting is an integer
multiple ![](media/image482.wmf) of period ![](media/image483.wmf) (in
subframes).

\- The reporting instances for wideband first PMI are subframes
satisfying ![](media/image484.wmf)*.*

\- For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, if UE is configured
with parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
to \'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS
resource configured, and RI reporting for *eMIMO-Type2* is not
configured, the reporting interval of wideband first PMI and RI
reporting for *eMIMO-Type* is an integer multiple
![](media/image477.wmf) of period ![](media/image485.wmf) (in
subframes).

\- The reporting instances for wideband first PMI and RI for
*eMIMO-Type* are subframes satisfying ![](media/image486.wmf).

\- For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, if UE is configured
with parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
to \'CLASS B\' with more than one CSI-RS resource configured, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource configured,
and RI reporting for *eMIMO-Type2* is not configured, the reporting
interval of CRI reporting for *eMIMO-Type* is an integer multiple
![](media/image487.wmf) of period ![](media/image483.wmf) (in subframes)

\- The reporting instances for CRI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image488.wmf).

\- In case RI reporting is configured, the reporting interval of the RI
reporting, or RI and RPI reporting if UE is configured in transmission
mode 9 or 10, and with higher layer parameter
*advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, is an integer multiple
![](media/image471.wmf) of period ![](media/image483.wmf) (in
subframes).

\- The reporting instances for RI or RI and RPI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image489.wmf).

> \- For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and UE configured
> with parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
> to \'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one
> CSI-RS resource configured, the reporting interval of wideband first
> PMI and RI reporting for *eMIMO-Type* is an integer multiple
> ![](media/image477.wmf) of period ![](media/image490.wmf) (in
> subframes).

\- The reporting instances for wideband first PMI and RI for
*eMIMO-Type* are subframes satisfying ![](media/image491.wmf).

\- In case CRI reporting is configured,

\- if the number of antenna ports in each configured CSI-RS resource is
one,

\- the reporting interval of the CRI reporting is an integer multiple
![](media/image487.wmf) of period ![](media/image483.wmf) (in subframes)

\- The reporting instances for CRI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image488.wmf).

\- otherwise

\- the reporting interval of the CRI reporting is an integer multiple
![](media/image492.wmf) of period ![](media/image490.wmf) (in
subframes).

\- The reporting instances for CRI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image493.wmf).

In the case where both wideband CQI/PMI and subband CQI (or subband
CQI/second PMI for transmission modes 9 and 10) reporting are
configured:

\- The reporting instances for wideband CQI/PMI and subband CQI (or
subband CQI/second PMI for transmission modes 9 and 10) are subframes
satisfying ![](media/image494.wmf).

\- For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, if UE is configured
with parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
to \'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS
resource configured, and RI reporting for *eMIMO-Type2* is not
configured, the reporting interval of wideband first PMI and RI
reporting for *eMIMO-Type* is an integer multiple
![](media/image477.wmf) of period ![](media/image485.wmf) (in
subframes).

\- The reporting instances for wideband first PMI and RI for
*eMIMO-Type* are subframes satisfying ![](media/image495.wmf).

\- For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, if UE is configured
with parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
to \'CLASS B\' with more than one CSI-RS resource configured, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource configured,
and RI reporting for *eMIMO-Type2* is not configured, the reporting
interval of CRI reporting for *eMIMO-Type* is an integer multiple
![](media/image487.wmf) of period ![](media/image483.wmf) (in subframes)

\- The reporting instances for CRI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image488.wmf).

\- When PTI is not transmitted (due to not being configured) or the most
recently transmitted PTI is equal to 1 for a UE configured in
transmission modes 8 and 9, or for a UE configured in transmission mode
10 without a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, or the
transmitted PTI is equal to 1 reported in the most recent RI reporting
instance for a CSI process when a UE is configured in transmission mode
10 with a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for the CSI process, or the
transmitted PTI is equal to 1 for a \'RI-reference CSI process\'
reported in the most recent RI reporting instance for a CSI process when
a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with the \'RI-reference CSI
process\' for the CSI process, and the most recent type 6 report for the
CSI process is dropped:

\- The wideband CQI/ wideband PMI (or wideband CQI/wideband second PMI
for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10) report has period
![](media/image496.wmf), and is reported on the subframes satisfying
![](media/image497.wmf). The integer ![](media/image498.wmf) is defined
as ![](media/image499.wmf), where ![](media/image500.wmf) is the number
of bandwidth parts.

\- Between every two consecutive wideband CQI/ wideband PMI (or wideband
CQI/wideband second PMI for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10) reports, the
remaining ![](media/image501.wmf) reporting instances are used in
sequence for subband CQI (or subband CQI/second PMI for transmission
modes 9 and 10) reports on ![](media/image502.wmf) full cycles of
bandwidth parts except when the gap between two consecutive wideband
CQI/PMI reports contains less than ![](media/image501.wmf) reporting
instances due to a system frame number transition to 0, in which case
the UE shall not transmit the remainder of the subband CQI (or subband
CQI/second PMI for transmission modes 9 and 10) reports which have not
been transmitted before the second of the two wideband CQI/ wideband PMI
(or wideband CQI/wideband second PMI for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10)
reports. Each full cycle of bandwidth parts shall be in increasing order
starting from bandwidth part 0 to bandwidth part
![](media/image503.wmf). The parameter![](media/image502.wmf) is
configured by higher-layer signalling.

\- When the most recently transmitted PTI is 0 for a UE configured in
transmission modes 8 and 9 or for a UE configured in transmission mode
10 without a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, or the
transmitted PTI is 0 reported in the most recent RI reporting instance
for a CSI process when a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
\'RI-reference CSI process\' for the CSI process, or the transmitted PTI
is 0 for a \'RI-reference CSI process\' reported in the most recent RI
reporting instance for a CSI process when a UE is configured in
transmission mode 10 with the \'RI-reference CSI process\' for the CSI
process, and the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
dropped:

\- The wideband first precoding matrix indicator report has period
![](media/image504.wmf), and is reported on the subframes satisfying
![](media/image505.wmf), where ![](media/image506.wmf)is signalled by
higher layers.

\- Between every two consecutive wideband first precoding matrix
indicator reports, the remaining reporting instances are used for a
wideband second precoding matrix indicator with wideband CQI as
described below

\- In case RI reporting is configured, the reporting interval of RI is
![](media/image471.wmf) times the wideband CQI/PMI period
![](media/image507.wmf), and RI is reported on the same PUCCH cyclic
shift resource as both the wideband CQI/PMI and subband CQI reports.

\- The reporting instances for RI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image508.wmf).

> \- For a UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and UE configured
> with parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set
> to \'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one
> CSI-RS resource configured, the reporting interval of wideband first
> PMI and RI reporting for *eMIMO-Type* is an integer multiple
> ![](media/image477.wmf) of period ![](media/image509.wmf) (in
> subframes).

\- The reporting instances for wideband first PMI and RI for
*eMIMO-Type* are subframes satisfying ![](media/image510.wmf).

\- In case CRI reporting is configured,

\- if the number of antenna ports in each configured CSI-RS resource is
one,

\- the reporting interval of the CRI reporting is
![](media/image487.wmf) times the wideband CQI/PMI period
![](media/image507.wmf),

\- The reporting instances for CRI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image511.wmf).

\- otherwise

\- the reporting interval of the CRI reporting is
![](media/image512.wmf) times the RI period ![](media/image513.wmf) (in
subframes).

\- The reporting instances for CRI are subframes satisfying
![](media/image514.wmf).

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for a
CSI process, at the CQI, PMI, RI, PTI reporting instances for
*eMIMO-Type2* of the CSI process, the parameter *eMIMO-Type* in the rest
of this Clause refers to the parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for the CSI
process.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, or
for a CSI process a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* and not configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type2* and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', or for a CSI
process a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', except with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and one configured CSI-RS resource, or for
a CSI process a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and one activated CSI-RS
resource, in case of collision of a CSI report with PUCCH reporting type
3, 5, 6 or 11 of one serving cell with a CSI report with PUCCH reporting
type 1, 1a, 2, 2a, 2b, 2c, or 4 of the same serving cell the latter CSI
report with PUCCH reporting type (1, 1a, 2, 2a, 2b, 2c, or 4), except a
CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 2a for *eMIMO-Type* of a CSI
process of the same serving cell with configured higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\',
and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource
configured, has lower priority and is dropped.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and not
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2* and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS A\' for a CSI process, in case of collision of a CSI
report with PUCCH reporting type 2a of one serving cell with a CSI
report with PUCCH reporting type 1, 1a, 2, 2b, 2c, or 4 of the same
serving cell, the latter CSI report with PUCCH reporting type (1, 1a, 2,
2b, 2c, or 4) has lower priority and is dropped.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration,* for a CSI process, if a UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* except with higher
layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to
\'CLASS B\', and more than one configured CSI-RS resources, or a UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\'
and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and
more than one activated CSI-RS resources, in case of collision of a CSI
report with PUCCH reporting type 7, 8, 9, or 10 of one serving cell with
a CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 1, 1a, 2, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3, 4, 5, 6,
or 11 of the same serving cell the latter CSI report with PUCCH
reporting type (1, 1a, 2, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 11), except CSI
report with PUCCH reporting type 2a or 5 for *eMIMO-Type* of a CSI
process of the same serving cell with configured higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\',
and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource
configured, has lower priority and is dropped.

For a CSI process, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\',
and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource
configured, PUCCH reporting type 2a, or 5 for *eMIMO-Type* of the CSI
process of one serving cell has the same priority with PUCCH reporting
type (7, 8, 9, or 10) of the same serving cell.

For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 10, in case of
collision between CSI reports of same serving cell with PUCCH reporting
type of the same priority, and the CSI reports corresponding to
different CSI processes, the CSI reports corresponding to all CSI
processes except the CSI process with the lowest *csi-ProcessId-r11* are
dropped.

For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 1-9 and
configured with CSI subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) by the higher layer parameter
*csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for the serving cell, in case of
collision between CSI reports of same serving cell with PUCCH reporting
type of the same priority, the CSI report corresponding to CSI subframe
set ![](media/image338.wmf) is dropped.

For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 10 and
configured with CSI subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) by the higher layer parameter
*csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for the serving cell, in case of
collision between CSI reports of same serving cell with PUCCH reporting
type of the same priority and the CSI reports corresponding to CSI
processes with same *csi-ProcessId-r11*, the CSI report corresponding to
CSI subframe set ![](media/image338.wmf) is dropped.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, and if a PUCCH format 4 or
format 5 resource for HARQ-ACK according to Table 10.1.2.2.3-1 cannot be
determined, and if the UE is configured with more than one serving cell,
the UE transmits a CSI report of only one serving cell in any given
subframe. For a given subframe, in case of collision of a CSI report
with PUCCH reporting type 7, 8, 9, or 10 of one serving cell with a CSI
report with PUCCH reporting type 1, 1a, 2, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 11
of another serving cell, the latter CSI with PUCCH reporting type (1,
1a, 2, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 11), except CSI report with PUCCH
reporting type 2a or 5 for *eMIMO-Type* of a CSI process of the another
serving cell with configured higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and
*eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and *eMIMO-Type2*
is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource configured, has lower
priority and is dropped. For a given subframe, in case of collision of a
CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 3, 5, 6, 11, or 2a of one serving
cell with a CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 1, 1a, 2, 2b, 2c, or 4
of another serving cell, the latter CSI with PUCCH reporting type (1,
1a, 2, 2b, 2c, or 4) has lower priority and is dropped. For a given
subframe, in case of collision of CSI report with PUCCH reporting type
2, 2b, 2c, or 4 of one serving cell with CSI report with PUCCH reporting
type 1 or 1a of another serving cell, the latter CSI report with PUCCH
reporting type 1, or 1a has lower priority and is dropped. For a given
subframe, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*
and *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\' with one CSI-RS resource configured,
PUCCH reporting type 2a, or 5 for *eMIMO-Type* of the CSI process of one
serving cell has the same priority with PUCCH reporting type (7, 8, 9,
or 10) of the same serving cell in case of collision of type 2a, or 5
for *eMIMO-Type* of the CSI process of the serving cell with PUCCH
reporting types of another serving cell.

For a given subframe and serving cells with UE configured in
transmission mode 1-9, in case of collision between CSI reports of these
different serving cells with PUCCH reporting type of the same priority,
the CSI reports for all these serving cells except the serving cell with
lowest *ServCellIndex* are dropped.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, and if a PUCCH format 4 or
format 5 resource for HARQ-ACK according to Table 10.1.2.2.3-1 cannot be
determined, for a given subframe and serving cells with UE configured in
transmission mode 10, in case of collision between CSI reports of
different serving cells with PUCCH reporting type of the same priority
and the CSI reports corresponding to CSI processes with same
*csi-ProcessId-r11*, the CSI reports of all serving cells except the
serving cell with lowest *ServCellIndex* are dropped.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, and if a PUCCH format 4 or
format 5 resource for HARQ-ACK according to Table 10.1.2.2.3-1 cannot be
determined, for a given subframe and serving cells with UE configured in
transmission mode 10, in case of collision between CSI reports of
different serving cells with PUCCH reporting type of the same priority
and the CSI reports corresponding to CSI processes with different
*csi-ProcessId-r11*, the CSI reports of all serving cells except the
serving cell with CSI reports corresponding to CSI process with the
lowest *csi-ProcessId-r11* are dropped.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, and if a PUCCH format 4 or
format 5 resource for HARQ-ACK according to Table 10.1.2.2.3-1 cannot be
determined, for a given subframe, in case of collision between CSI
report of a given serving cell with UE configured in transmission mode
1-9, and CSI report(s) corresponding to CSI process(es) of a different
serving cell with the UE configured in transmission mode 10, and the CSI
reports of the serving cells with PUCCH reporting type of the same
priority, the CSI report(s) corresponding to CSI process(es) with
*csi-ProcessId-r11* \> 1 of the different serving cell are dropped.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, and if a PUCCH format 4 or
format 5 resource for HARQ-ACK according to Table 10.1.2.2.3-1 cannot be
determined, for a given subframe, in case of collision between CSI
report of a given serving cell with UE configured in transmission mode
1-9, and CSI report corresponding to CSI process with
*csi-ProcessId-r11* = 1 of a different serving cell with the UE
configured in transmission mode 10, and the CSI reports of the serving
cells with PUCCH reporting type of the same priority, the CSI report of
the serving cell with highest *ServCellIndex* is dropped.

See Clause 10.1 for UE behaviour regarding collision between CSI and
HARQ-ACK and the corresponding PUCCH format assignment.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, and if a PUCCH format 4 or
format 5 resource for HARQ-ACK according to Table 10.1.2.2.3-1 cannot be
determined, the CSI report of a given PUCCH reporting type shall be
transmitted on the PUCCH resource ![](media/image515.wmf) as defined in
\[3\], where ![](media/image515.wmf) is UE specific and configured by
higher layers for each serving cell.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, and

\- if the UE is not configured for simultaneous PUSCH and PUCCH
transmission or,

\- if the UE is configured for simultaneous PUSCH and PUCCH transmission
and not transmitting PUSCH,

in case of collision between CSI and positive SR in a same subframe, CSI
is dropped.

If a UE is configured with *format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, for a subframe in which only
periodic CSI and SR (if any) is transmitted,

-   if there is only one CSI report in the subframe,

    -   the CSI report of a given PUCCH reporting type shall be
        transmitted on the PUCCH resource ![](media/image515.wmf) as
        defined in \[3\], where ![](media/image515.wmf) is UE specific
        and configured by higher layers for each serving cell;

    -   In case of collision between CSI and positive SR in a same
        subframe, if the UE is not configured for simultaneous PUSCH and
        PUCCH transmission, or if the UE is configured for simultaneous
        PUSCH and PUCCH transmission and not transmitting PUSCH, CSI is
        dropped.

-   if there are more than one CSI reports in the subframe,

    -   if the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format4-Format5-r13*
        provided by higher layers is set TRUE, when a PUCCH format 4/5
        transmission of CSI reports coincides with *a sub-frame
        configured to the UE by higher layers for transmission of a
        scheduling request*, the UE shall transmit the CSI and SR on the
        PUCCH; Otherwise, CSI is dropped;

    -   if the UE is configured with a single PUCCH format 4 resource
        ![](media/image516.wmf) according to higher layer parameter
        *format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, the PUCCH format 4
        resource ![](media/image516.wmf) is used for transmission of the
        CSI reports and SR (if any);

    -   if the UE is configured with a PUCCH format 5 resource
        ![](media/image517.wmf)according to higher layer parameter
        *format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, the PUCCH format 5
        resource ![](media/image518.wmf)is used for transmission of the
        CSI reports and SR (if any);

    -   if the UE is configured with two PUCCH format 4 resources
        ![](media/image519.wmf) and ![](media/image520.wmf)according to
        higher layer parameter *format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*,
        if ![](media/image521.wmf), the PUCCH format 4 resource with the
        smaller ![](media/image522.wmf) between ![](media/image519.wmf)
        and ![](media/image520.wmf) is used for transmission of the CSI
        reports; otherwise, the PUCCH format 4 resource with the larger
        ![](media/image522.wmf) between ![](media/image519.wmf) and
        ![](media/image520.wmf) is used for transmission of the CSI
        reports, where

        -   ![](media/image523.wmf) is the total number of CSI report
            bits in the subframe;

        -   ![](media/image524.wmf) is the number of CRC bits;

        -   ![](media/image525.wmf)if there is no scheduling request bit
            in the subframe and ![](media/image526.wmf) otherwise;

        -   ![](media/image522.wmf), ![](media/image527.wmf), is the
            number of PRBs for ![](media/image519.wmf) and
            ![](media/image520.wmf) respectively, according to higher
            layer parameter *numberOfPRB-format4-r13* according to Table
            10.1.1-2;

        -   ![](media/image528.wmf) if shortened PUCCH format 4 is used
            in the subframe and ![](media/image529.wmf) otherwise; and

        -   ![](media/image530.wmf) is the code rate given by higher
            layer parameter *maximumPayloadCoderate-r13* according to
            Table 10.1.1-1*.*

If a UE transmits only periodic CSI and SR (if any) using either a PUCCH
format 4 ![](media/image516.wmf) or PUCCH format 5
![](media/image517.wmf)in a subframe and if ![](media/image531.wmf), the
UE shall select the SR (if any) and ![](media/image532.wmf) CSI
report(s) for transmission in ascending order of
![](media/image533.wmf), where:

\- ![](media/image523.wmf) is the total number of CSI report bits in the
subframe;

\- ![](media/image524.wmf) is the number of CRC bits

\- ![](media/image525.wmf) if there is no scheduling request bit in the
subframe and ![](media/image526.wmf) otherwise;

\- ![](media/image534.wmf) for PUCCH format 4 and
![](media/image535.wmf) for PUCCH format 5, where
![](media/image536.wmf) if shortened PUCCH format 4 or shortened PUCCH
format 5 is used in the subframe and ![](media/image537.wmf) otherwise;

\- ![](media/image530.wmf) is the code rate given by higher layer
parameter *maximumPayloadCoderate-r13* according to Table 10.1.1-1;

\- for a CSI report of a serving cell, ![](media/image538.wmf) for the
CSI report is defined as![](media/image539.wmf), where

\- ![](media/image540.wmf) for CSI report type 7/8/9/10,
![](media/image541.wmf) for CSI report type 3/5/6/2a/11,
![](media/image542.wmf) for CSI report type 2/2b/2c/4, and
![](media/image543.wmf) for CSI report type 1/1a;

\- ![](media/image544.wmf)is the CSI process ID according to
*csi-ProcessId-r11* if the serving cell is configured with transmission
mode 10, and ![](media/image545.wmf) if the serving cell configured with
transmission mode 1-9;

\- ![](media/image546.wmf)is the serving cell index;

\- ![](media/image547.wmf) and ![](media/image548.wmf) for CSI subframe
sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) respectively if
CSI subframe sets are configured for the serving cell, and
![](media/image547.wmf) otherwise.

\- The value of ![](media/image532.wmf) satisfies
![](media/image549.wmf) and ![](media/image550.wmf), where
![](media/image525.wmf) if there no scheduling request bit in the
subframe and ![](media/image526.wmf) otherwise. ![](media/image551.wmf)
is the number of CSI report bits for the *n*th CSI report in ascending
order of ![](media/image533.wmf).

If a UE is configured with *format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration* or
*format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguratio* and if the UE is configured with
more than ![](media/image438.wmf) periodic CSI reports in a subframe,
the UE is not required to update CSI for more than
![](media/image339.wmf) CSI processes from the CSI processes
corresponding to all the configured CSI reports, where the value of
![](media/image339.wmf)is given by *maxNumberUpdatedCSI-Proc-r13*.

If a UE configured with PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5 transmits UCI
over PUSCH, that would have been transmitted over PUCCH format 4 or
PUCCH format 5 if the UE did not have a PUSCH grant, then the UE shall
select the CSI report(s) (if any) for transmission following the same
procedure as for transmission over PUCCH.

Table 7.2.2-1A: Mapping of ![](media/image470.wmf) to
![](media/image552.wmf) and ![](media/image469.wmf) for FDD or for
FDD-TDD and primary cell frame structure type 1

  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  ![](media/image470.wmf)                Value of ![](media/image552.wmf)   Value of ![](media/image469.wmf)
  0 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 1        2                                  ![](media/image470.wmf)
  2 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 6        5                                  ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 2
  7 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 16       10                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 7
  17 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 36      20                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 17
  37 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 76      40                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 37
  77 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 156     80                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 77
  157 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 316    160                                ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 157
  ![](media/image470.wmf) = 317          Reserved                           
  318 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 349    32                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 318
  350 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 413    64                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 350
  414 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 541    128                                ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 414
  542 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 601    60                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 542
  602 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 1023   Reserved                           
  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------

Table 7.2.2-1B: Mapping of ![](media/image473.wmf) to
![](media/image471.wmf) and ![](media/image472.wmf).

  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- --------------------------------------
  ![](media/image473.wmf)                Value of ![](media/image471.wmf)   Value of ![](media/image472.wmf)
  0 ≤ ![](media/image473.wmf) ≤ 160      1                                  *−*![](media/image473.wmf)
  161 ≤ ![](media/image473.wmf) ≤ 321    2                                  *−* (![](media/image473.wmf) -- 161)
  322 ≤ ![](media/image473.wmf) ≤ 482    4                                  *−* (![](media/image473.wmf) -- 322)
  483 ≤ ![](media/image473.wmf) ≤ 643    8                                  *−* (![](media/image473.wmf) -- 483)
  644 ≤ ![](media/image473.wmf) ≤ 804    16                                 *−* (![](media/image473.wmf) -- 644)
  805 ≤ ![](media/image473.wmf) ≤ 965    32                                 *−* (![](media/image473.wmf) -- 805)
  966 ≤ ![](media/image473.wmf) ≤ 1023   Reserved                           
  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- --------------------------------------

Table 7.2.2-1C: Mapping of ![](media/image470.wmf) to
![](media/image552.wmf) and ![](media/image469.wmf) for TDD or for
FDD-TDD and primary cell frame structure type 2

  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  ![](media/image470.wmf)                Value of ![](media/image552.wmf)   Value of ![](media/image469.wmf)
  ![](media/image470.wmf) = 0            1                                  ![](media/image470.wmf)
  1 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 5        5                                  ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 1
  6 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 15       10                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 6
  16 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 35      20                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 16
  36 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 75      40                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 36
  76 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 155     80                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 76
  156 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 315    160                                ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 156
  316 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 375    60                                 ![](media/image470.wmf) -- 316
  376 ≤ ![](media/image470.wmf) ≤ 1023   Reserved                           
  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------

Table 7.2.2-1J: Mapping of $\mathbf{I}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$to
$\mathbf{I}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$$\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$when
RI reporting is configured

  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  ![](media/image475.wmf)           Value of $\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$
  0                                 1
  1                                 2
  2                                 4
  3                                 8
  4                                 16
  5                                 32
  6                                 64
  7                                 128
  7\<![](media/image475.wmf)≤1023   Reserved
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.2-1K: Mapping of $\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$ to
$\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$$\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$and
![](media/image553.wmf)$\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{OFFSET,CRI}}$ when the
number of antenna ports in each configured CSI-RS resource is one

  ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
                                  Value of $\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$   Value of ![](media/image553.wmf)
  0 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 160      1                                             *−*$I_{\text{CRI}}$
  161 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 321    2                                             *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$ -- 161)
  322 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 482    4                                             *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$-- 322)
  483 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 643    8                                             *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$ -- 483)
  644 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 804    16                                            *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$ -- 644)
  805 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 965    32                                            *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$-- 805)
  966 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 1023   *Reserved*                                    
  ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------

Table 7.2.2-1L: Mapping of $\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$ to
$\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$and
$\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$$\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$$\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{OFFSET,CRI}}$

  ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
                                  Value of $\mathbf{M}_{\mathbf{\text{CRI}}}$   Value of
  0 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 160      1                                             *−*$I_{\text{CRI}}$
  161 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 321    2                                             *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$ -- 161)
  322 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 482    4                                             *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$-- 322)
  483 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 643    8                                             *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$ -- 483)
  644 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 804    16                                            *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$ -- 644)
  805 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 965    32                                            *−* ($I_{\text{CRI}}$-- 805)
  966 ≤ $I_{\text{CRI}}$ ≤ 1023   *Reserved*                                    
  ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -------------------------------

For TDD or FDD-TDD and primary cell frame structure type 2 periodic
CQI/PMI reporting, the following periodicity values apply for a serving
cell *c* depending on the TDD UL/DL configuration of the primary cell
\[3\], *where* the UL/DL configuration corresponds to the
*eimta-HARQ-ReferenceConfig-r12* for the primary cell *if the UE is
configured with the parameter EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for the
primary cell, or to the *harq-ReferenceConfig-r14* for the primary cell
when the UE is configured with the parameter *harq-ReferenceConfig-r14*:

\- The reporting period of ![](media/image559.wmf) is applicable for the
serving cell *c* only if TDD UL/DL configuration of the primary cell
belongs to {0, 1, 3, 4, 6}, and where all UL subframes of the primary
cell in a radio frame are used for CQI/PMI reporting.

\- The reporting period of ![](media/image560.wmf) is applicable for the
serving cell *c* only if TDD UL/DL configuration of the primary cell
belongs to {0, 1, 2, 6}.

\- The reporting periods of ![](media/image561.wmf) are applicable for
the serving cell c for any TDD UL/DL configuration of the primary cell.

For a serving cell with ![](media/image446.wmf), Mode 2-0 and Mode 2-1
are not supported for that serving cell.

The sub-sampled codebook for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 2 for 8 CSI-RS ports
is defined in Table 7.2.2-1D for first and second precoding matrix
indicator ![](media/image449.wmf) and ![](media/image562.wmf). Joint
encoding of rank and first precoding matrix indicator
![](media/image449.wmf) for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 1 for 8 CSI-RS ports
is defined in Table 7.2.2-1E. The sub-sampled codebook for PUCCH mode
2-1 for 8 CSI-RS ports is defined in Table 7.2.2-1F for PUCCH Reporting
Type 1a. For a BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA and PUCCH mode 1-1 for 8
CSI-RS ports, the entries in Table 7.2.2-1D and Table 7.2.2-1E
corresponding to rank 1 are used, and the codebook indices
![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.14444444444444443in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} and
![](media/image564.wmf){width="0.14444444444444443in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} are given in Table 7.2.4-1.

For a UE configured with transmission mode 9 or 10, and the UE
configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and PUCCH Reporting Type 1a, the
sub-sampled codebook for PUCCH mode 2-1 for value of parameter
*codebookConfig* set to 2, 3, or 4 is defined in Table 7.2.2-1F, for
value of parameter *codebookConfig* set to 1, the value of the second
PMI, ![](media/image565.wmf), is set to ![](media/image562.wmf).

Table 7.2.2-1D: PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 2 codebook subsampling

+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| RI | Re         | Re         | total      |            |        |
|    | lationship | lationship |            |            |        |
|    | between    | between    |            |            |        |
|    | the        | the        |            |            |        |
|    |            |            |            |            |        |
|    | first PMI  | second PMI |            |            |        |
|    | value and  | value and  |            |            |        |
|    | codebook   | codebook   |            |            |        |
|    | index      | index      |            |            |        |
|    | ![]        | ![]        |            |            |        |
|    | (media/ima | (media/ima |            |            |        |
|    | ge449.wmf) | ge562.wmf) |            |            |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
|    | Value of   | Codebook   | Value of   | Codebook   | \#bits |
|    | the first  | index      | the second | index      |        |
|    | PMI        | ![]        | PMI![]     | ![]        |        |
|    | ![]        | (media/ima | (media/ima | (media/ima |        |
|    | (media/ima | ge449.wmf) | ge565.wmf) | ge562.wmf) |        |
|    | ge566.wmf) |            |            |            |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| 1  | 0-7        | ![]        | 0-1        | ![]        | 4      |
|    |            | (media/ima |            | (media/ima |        |
|    |            | ge567.wmf) |            | ge568.wmf) |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| 2  | 0-7        | ![]        | 0-1        | ![]        | 4      |
|    |            | (media/ima |            | (media/ima |        |
|    |            | ge567.wmf) |            | ge565.wmf) |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| 3  | 0-1        | ![]        | 0-7        | ![]        | 4      |
|    |            | (media/ima |            | (media/ima |        |
|    |            | ge567.wmf) |            | ge569.wmf) |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| 4  | 0-1        | ![]        | 0-7        | ![]        | 4      |
|    |            | (media/ima |            | (media/ima |        |
|    |            | ge567.wmf) |            | ge565.wmf) |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| 5  | 0-3        |  ![]       | 0          |  0         | 2      |
|    |            | (media/ima |            |            |        |
|    |            | ge566.wmf) |            |            |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| 6  | 0-3        | ![]        | 0          |  0         | 2      |
|    |            | (media/ima |            |            |        |
|    |            | ge566.wmf) |            |            |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| 7  | 0-3        | ![]        | 0          |  0         | 2      |
|    |            | (media/ima |            |            |        |
|    |            | ge566.wmf) |            |            |        |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| 8  | 0          |  0         | 0          |  0         | 0      |
+----+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+

Table 7.2.2-1E: Joint encoding of RI and ![](media/image449.wmf) for
PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 1

+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Value of joint encoding of | RI       | Codebook index             |
| RI and the first PMI       |          | ![](media/image449.wmf)    |
|                            |          |                            |
| ![](media/image570.wmf)    |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 0-7                        | 1        | ![](media/image571.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 8-15                       | 2        | ![](media/image572.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 16-17                      | 3        | ![](media/image573.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 18-19                      | 4        | ![](media/image574.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 20-21                      | 5        | ![](media/image575.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 22-23                      | 6        | ![](media/image576.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 24-25                      | 7        | ![](media/image577.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 26                         | 8        | 0                          |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 27-31                      | reserved | NA                         |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+

Table 7.2.2-1F: PUCCH mode 2-1 codebook subsampling

  ---- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  RI   Relationship between the second PMI value and codebook index ![](media/image562.wmf)   
       Value of the second PMI ![](media/image565.wmf)                                        Codebook index ![](media/image562.wmf)
  1    0-15                                                                                   ![](media/image578.wmf)
  2    0-3                                                                                    ![](media/image579.wmf)
  3    0-3                                                                                    ![](media/image580.wmf)
  4    0-3                                                                                    ![](media/image579.wmf)
  5    0                                                                                      0
  6    0                                                                                      0
  7    0                                                                                      0
  8    0                                                                                      0
  ---- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------

The sub-sampled codebook for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 2 for transmission
modes 8, 9 and 10 configured with
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* is defined in Table 7.2.2-1G
for first and second precoding matrix indicator ![](media/image449.wmf)
and![](media/image562.wmf). Joint encoding of rank and first precoding
matrix indicator ![](media/image449.wmf) for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 1
for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10 configured with
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* is defined in Table
7.2.2-1H. The sub-sampled codebook for PUCCH mode 2-1 for transmission
modes 8, 9 and 10 configured with
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* is defined in Table 7.2.2-1I
for PUCCH Reporting Type 1a.

Table 7.2.2-1G: PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 2 codebook subsampling with 4
antenna ports

  ---- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- --------
  RI   Relationship between the first PMI value and codebook index ![](media/image449.wmf)   Relationship between the second PMI value and codebook index ![](media/image562.wmf)   total                                                                                     
       Value of the first PMI ![](media/image566.wmf)                                        Codebook index ![](media/image449.wmf)                                                 Value of the second PMI![](media/image565.wmf)   Codebook index ![](media/image562.wmf)   \#bits
  1    0-3                                                                                   ![](media/image581.wmf)                                                                0-3                                              ![](media/image582.wmf)                  4
  2    0-3                                                                                   ![](media/image583.wmf)                                                                0-3                                              ![](media/image584.wmf)                  4
  3    0                                                                                     0                                                                                      0-15                                             ![](media/image585.wmf)                  4
  4    0                                                                                     0                                                                                      0-15                                             ![](media/image586.wmf)                  4
  ---- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- --------

Table 7.2.2-1 H: Joint encoding of RI and for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 1
with 4 antenna ports

+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| **Value of joint encoding  | RI       | Codebook index             |
| of RI and the first PMI**  |          | ![](media/image449.wmf)    |
|                            |          |                            |
| ![](media/image570.wmf)    |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
|                            |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 0-7                        | 1        | ![](media/image587.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 8-15                       | 2        | ![](media/image588.wmf)    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 16                         | 3        | 0                          |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 17                         | 4        | 0                          |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| 18-31                      | reserved | NA                         |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+

Table 7.2.2-1 I: PUCCH mode 2-1 codebook subsampling with 4 antenna
ports

  ---- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------
  RI   **Relationship between the second PMI value and codebook index** ![](media/image562.wmf)   
       Value of the second PMI ![](media/image565.wmf)                                            **Codebook index** ![](media/image562.wmf)
  1    0-15                                                                                       ![](media/image589.wmf)
  2    0-3                                                                                        ![](media/image584.wmf)
  3    0-3                                                                                        ![](media/image582.wmf)
  4    0-3                                                                                        ![](media/image582.wmf)
  ---- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------

For a UE configured with transmission mode 9 or 10, and the UE
configured with parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE* and
![](media/image590.wmf)and PUCCH Reporting Type 2b, the sub-sampled
codebook for PUCCH mode 1-1 for value of ![](media/image591.wmf) is
defined in Table 7.2.2-1H, and for value of ![](media/image592.wmf), the
value of the second PMI, ![](media/image593.wmf), is set to
![](media/image562.wmf).

Table 7.2.2-1H: PUCCH mode 1-1 codebook subsampling, with parameter
*advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE,* ![](media/image591.wmf)

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------
  **Relationship between the second PMI value and codebook index** ![](media/image562.wmf)   
  **Value of the second PMI** ![](media/image593.wmf)                                        **Codebook index** ![](media/image562.wmf)
  0                                                                                          2048
  1                                                                                          2113
  2                                                                                          2178
  3                                                                                          2243
  4                                                                                          2568
  5                                                                                          2633
  6                                                                                          2698
  7                                                                                          2763
  8                                                                                          3348
  9                                                                                          3413
  10                                                                                         3478
  11                                                                                         3543
  12                                                                                         3868
  13                                                                                         3933
  14                                                                                         3998
  15                                                                                         4063
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------

An CRI or RI or PTI or any precoding matrix indicator reported for a
serving cell in a periodic reporting mode is valid only for CSI reports
for that serving cell on that periodic CSI reporting mode.

For serving cell ![](media/image429.wmf), a UE configured in
transmission mode 10 with PMI/RI reporting or without PMI reporting for
a CSI process can be configured with a \'RI-reference CSI process\'. The
RI for the \'RI-reference CSI process\' is not based on any other
configured CSI process other than the \'RI-reference CSI process\'. If
the UE is configured with a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI
process and if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by higher layers for only one of
the CSI processes then the UE is not expected to receive configuration
for the CSI process configured with the subframe subsets that have a
different set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset
restriction between the two subframe sets.The UE is not expected to
receive configurations for the CSI process and the \'RI-reference CSI
process\' that have a different:

\- periodic CSI reporting mode (including sub-mode if configured),
and/or

\- number of CSI-RS antenna ports, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction if
subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are
not configured by higher layers for both CSI processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction for
each subframe set if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by higher layers for both CSI
processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction if
subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are
configured by higher layers for only one of the CSI processes, and the
set of restricted RIs for the two subframe sets are the same, and/or

\- number of CSI-RS antenna ports for any two CSI-RS resources for the
two CSI processes, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of
configured CSI-RS resources is more than one for at least one of the two
CSI processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction for
any two CSI-RS resources for the two CSI processes, if a UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS resources is
more than one for at least one of the two CSI processes and if subframe
sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are not
configured by higher layers for both CSI processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction for
each subframe set and for any two CSI-RS resources for the two CSI
processes, if a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of
configured CSI-RS resources is more than one for at least one of the two
CSI processes and if subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image338.wmf) are configured by higher layers for both CSI
processes, and/or

\- set of restricted RIs with precoder codebook subset restriction for
any two CSI-RS resources for the two CSI processes, if a UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS resources is
more than one for at least one of the two CSI processes and if subframe
sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image338.wmf) are configured
by higher layers for only one of the CSI processes, and the set of
restricted RIs for the two subframe sets are the same.

If a UE is configured for CRI reporting,

\- For the calculation of CQI/PMI/RI conditioned on the last reported
CRI, in the absence of a last reported CRI the UE shall conduct the
CQI/PMI/RI calculation conditioned on the lowest possible CRI. If
reporting for more than one CSI subframe set is configured, CQI/PMI/RI
is conditioned on the last reported CRI linked to the same subframe set
as the CSI report.

\- For the calculation of CQI/PMI conditioned on the last reported RI
and CRI, in the absence of a last reported RI and CRI, the UE shall
conduct the CQI/PMI calculation conditioned on the lowest possible RI
associated with the lowest possible CRI and as given by the bitmap
parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction* and the parameter
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12* if configured. If reporting for
more than one CSI subframe set is configured, CQI/PMI is conditioned on
the last reported RI associated with the last reported CRI and linked to
the same subframe set as the CSI report

otherwise,

\- For the calculation of CQI/PMI conditioned on the last reported RI,
in the absence of a last reported RI the UE shall conduct the CQI/PMI
calculation conditioned on the lowest possible RI as given by the bitmap
parameter *codebookSubsetRestriction* and the parameter
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12* if configured. If reporting for
more than one CSI subframe set is configured, CQI/PMI is conditioned on
the last reported RI linked to the same subframe set as the CSI report.

-   For a non-BL/CE UE, the periodic CSI reporting modes are described
    as following:

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Wideband feedback

    -   Mode 1-0 description:

        -   In the subframe where RI is reported (only for transmission
            mode 3, and transmission mode 9 or 10 without PMI reporting
            with one configured CSI-RS resource or with more than one
            configured CSI-RS resource and the number of CSI-RS ports of
            the selected CSI-RS resource is more than one):

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the RI
                for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI in the
                most recent CSI report comprising RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective of subframe
                sets if configured; otherwise, for transmission mode 3
                the UE shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands, and for transmission mode 9 or 10 without
                PMI reporting, the UE shall determine a RI assuming
                transmission on set *S* subbands, and conditioned on the
                last reported periodic CRI if the UE is configured with
                CRI reporting.

            -   The UE shall report a type 3 report consisting of one
                RI.

        -   In the subframe where RI and CRI is reported (for
            transmission mode 9 or 10 without PMI reporting and without
            higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and
            number of configured CSI-RS resources more than one, and for
            transmission mode 9 or 10 without PMI reporting and with
            higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
            \'multiShot\', and number of activated CSI-RS resources more
            than one):

            -   A UE shall determine a CRI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands.

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the RI
                for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI in the
                most recent CSI report comprising RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective of subframe
                sets if configured; otherwise, the UE shall determine a
                RI assuming transmission on set *S* subbands conditioned
                on the reported CRI.

            -   The UE shall report a type 7 report consisting of one RI
                and one CRI.

        -   In the subframe where CRI is reported (only for transmission
            mode 9 or 10 with CRI reporting and the number of antenna
            ports in each of configured CSI-RS resources is one):

            -   A UE shall determine a CRI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands.

            -   The UE shall report a type10 report consisting of one
                CRI.

        -   In the subframe where CQI is reported:

            -   If the UE is configured without PMI reporting (only for
                transmission mode 9 or 10):

                -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the
                    codebook subset assuming transmission on set *S*
                    subbands.

                -   A UE shall report a type 4 report consisting of

                    -   A single wideband CQI value which is calculated
                        assuming the use of a single precoding matrix in
                        all subbands and transmission on set *S*
                        subbands.

                    -   When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit wideband spatial
                        differential CQI, which is shown in Table 7.2-2.

                -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' for a
                        CSI process, and the most recent type 3 report
                        for the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3
                        report for the \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\'
                        is reported in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process, the selected
                        precoding matrix and CQI for the CSI process are
                        calculated conditioned on the reported periodic
                        RI for the configured \'\'RI-reference CSI
                        process\'\' in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process and last reported
                        periodic CRI for the CSI process; otherwise the
                        selected precoding matrix and CQI are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the last reported periodic CRI.

                -   otherwise,

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' for a
                        CSI process, and the most recent type 3 report
                        for the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3
                        report for the \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\'
                        is reported in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process, the selected
                        precoding matrix and CQI for the CSI process are
                        calculated conditioned on the reported periodic
                        RI for the configured \'\'RI-reference CSI
                        process\'\' in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process; otherwise the
                        selected precoding matrix and CQI are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   A UE shall report a type 4 report consisting of one
                    wideband CQI value which is calculated assuming
                    transmission on set *S* subbands. The wideband CQI
                    represents channel quality for the first codeword,
                    even when RI\>1.

                -   For transmission mode 3 the CQI is calculated
                    conditioned on the last reported periodic RI. For
                    other transmission modes it is calculated
                    conditioned on transmission rank 1. If the UE is
                    configured with CRI reporting, the CQI is calculated
                    conditioned on the last reported periodic CRI.

    -   Mode 1-1 description:

        -   In the subframe where RI is reported (only for transmission
            modes 4, 8, 9 and 10):

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    RI for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI
                    in the most recent CSI report comprising RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective
                    of subframe sets if configured; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                    *S* subbands conditioned on the last reported
                    periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    RI for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI
                    in the most recent CSI report comprising RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective
                    of subframe sets if configured; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                    *S* subbands.

            -   The UE shall report a type 3 report consisting of one
                RI.

        -   In the subframe where RI and CRI is reported for
            transmission modes 9 and 10:

            -   A UE shall determine a CRI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands.

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the RI
                for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI in the
                most recent CSI report comprising RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective of subframe
                sets if configured; otherwise, the UE shall determine a
                RI assuming transmission on set *S* subbands conditioned
                on the reported CRI for the CSI process.

            -   The UE shall report a type 7 report consisting of one RI
                and one CRI.

        -   In the subframe where RI and RPI is reported for
            transmission modes 9 and 10:

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the RI
                for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI in the
                most recent CSI report comprising RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective of subframe
                sets if configured; otherwise, the UE shall determine a
                RI assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   If the determined ![](media/image450.wmf), RPI is set to
                0; otherwise UE shall determine a RPI assuming
                transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   The UE shall report a type 11 report consisting of one
                RI and one RPI.

        -   In the subframe where RI and a first PMI are reported for
            transmission modes 9 and 10 configured with submode 1 and 8
            CSI-RS ports without CRI reporting and not configured with
            *advancedCodebookEnabled* or 8 CSI-RS ports or 4 CSI-RS
            ports with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* in
            the selected CSI-RS resource and UE is configured with CRI
            reporting, and for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10 configured
            with submode 1 and
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* without CRI
            reporting and not configured with *advancedCodebookEnabled*:

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    RI for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI
                    in the most recent CSI report comprising RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective
                    of subframe sets if configured; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                    *S* subbands conditioned on the last reported
                    periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    RI for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI
                    in the most recent CSI report comprising RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective
                    of subframe sets if configured; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                    *S* subbands.

            -   The UE shall report a type 5 report consisting of
                jointly coded RI and a first PMI corresponding to a set
                of precoding matrices selected from the codebook subset
                assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If the UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with
                    a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process and
                    in case of collision of type 5 report for the CSI
                    process with type 5 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\', the wideband first PMI for the CSI
                    process shall be the same as the wideband first PMI
                    in the most recent type 5 report for the configured
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\'; otherwise, the
                    wideband first PMI value is calculated conditioned
                    on the reported periodic RI and last reported
                    periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If the UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with
                    a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process and
                    in case of collision of type 5 report for the CSI
                    process with type 5 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\', the wideband first PMI for the CSI
                    process shall be the same as the wideband first PMI
                    in the most recent type 5 report for the configured
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\'; otherwise, the
                    wideband first PMI value is calculated conditioned
                    on the reported periodic RI.

        -   In the subframe where CRI, RI and a first PMI are reported
            for transmission modes 9, and 10 configured with submode 1
            and 8 CSI-RS ports in at least one of the configured CSI-RS
            resources, or for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10 configured
            with submode 1 and
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* and 4 CSI-RS
            ports in at least one of configured CSI-RS resources:

            -   A UE shall determine a CRI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands.

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the RI
                for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI in the
                most recent CSI report comprising RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective of subframe
                sets if configured; otherwise, the UE shall determine a
                RI assuming transmission on set *S* subbands conditioned
                on the reported CRI.

            -   If the configured CSI-RS resource corresponding to the
                determined CRI comprises 8 CSI-RS ports or 4 CSI-RS
                ports with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE,*
                the UE shall report a type 8 report consisting of
                jointly coded CRI, RI and a first PMI corresponding to a
                set of precoding matrices selected from the codebook
                subset assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.
                Otherwise, the UE shall report a type 8 report
                consisting of jointly coded CRI, RI and a first PMI
                fixed to zero.

            -   If the UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process and in
                case of collision of type 5 report for the CSI process
                with type 5 report for the \'RI-reference CSI process\',
                the wideband first PMI for the CSI process shall be the
                same as the wideband first PMI in the most recent type 5
                report for the configured \'RI-reference CSI process\';
                otherwise, the wideband first PMI value is calculated
                conditioned on the reported periodic RI and last
                reported periodic CRI conditioned on the reported CRI.

        -   In the subframe where the wideband first PMI is reported,
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type* configured, and *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS
            A\', or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher layer
            parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled* *=TRUE* configured, and
            last reported periodic ![](media/image451.wmf),

            -   A set of precoding matrices corresponding to the
                wideband first PMI is selected from the codebook
                assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   A UE shall report a type 2a report consisting of the
                wideband first PMI corresponding to the selected set of
                precoding matrices.

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and the
                most recent type 3 report for the CSI process is
                dropped, and a type 3 report for the \'RI-reference CSI
                process\' is reported in the most recent RI reporting
                instance for the CSI process, the wideband first PMI
                value for the CSI process is calculated conditioned on
                the reported periodic RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent RI
                reporting instance for the CSI process; otherwise the
                wideband first PMI value is calculated conditioned on
                the last reported periodic RI.

        -   In the subframe where CQI/PMI is reported for all
            transmission modes except with,

            -   UE is configured with higher layer parameter
                *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', or

            -   UE configured with higher layer parameter
                *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and last reported
                periodic ![](media/image590.wmf), or

            -   8 CSI-RS ports configured for transmission modes 9 and
                10, or with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE*
                configured for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10, if the UE
                is not configured with higher layer parameter
                *eMIMO-Type*, or UE configured with CRI reporting, or UE
                is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*,
                and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS
                resource configured, and except with higher layer
                parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
                configured:

                -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the
                    codebook subset assuming transmission on set *S*
                    subbands.

                -   A UE shall report a type 2 report consisting of

                    -   A single wideband CQI value which is calculated
                        assuming the use of a single precoding matrix in
                        all subbands and transmission on set *S*
                        subbands.

                    -   The selected single PMI (wideband PMI).

                    -   When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit wideband spatial
                        differential CQI, which is shown in Table 7.2-2.

                -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' for a
                        CSI process, and the most recent type 3 report
                        for the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3
                        report for the \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\'
                        is reported in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process, the PMI and CQI
                        for the CSI process are calculated conditioned
                        on the reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' in the most
                        recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                        process; otherwise the PMI and CQI are
                        calculated conditioned on the last reported
                        periodic RI and the last reported periodic CRI.

                -   otherwise,

                    -   For transmission modes 4, 8, 9 and 10,

                        -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode
                            10 with a \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\'
                            for a CSI process, and the most recent type
                            3 report for the CSI process is dropped, and
                            a type 3 report for the \'\'RI-reference CSI
                            process\'\' is reported in the most recent
                            RI reporting instance for the CSI process,
                            the PMI and CQI for the CSI process are
                            calculated conditioned on the reported
                            periodic RI for the configured
                            \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' in the most
                            recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                            process; otherwise the PMI and CQI are
                            calculated conditioned on the last reported
                            periodic RI.

                    -   For other transmission modes the PMI and CQI are
                        calculated conditioned on transmission rank 1.

        -   In the subframe where wideband CQI/second PMI is reported
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports and
            submode 1 without CRI reporting, or for 8 CSI-RS ports or 4
            CSI-RS ports with
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* in the selected
            CSI-RS resource and UE is configured with CRI reporting, or
            for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10 with submode 1 and
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* without CRI
            reporting, or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* configured, and *eMIMO-Type*
            set to \'CLASS A\', or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with
            higher layer parameter *advancedCodebookEnabled* *=TRUE*
            configured, and last reported periodic
            ![](media/image451.wmf):

            -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
                subset assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   A UE shall report a type 2b report consisting of

                -   A single wideband CQI value which is calculated
                    assuming the use of the single precoding matrix in
                    all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands.

                -   The wideband second PMI corresponding to the
                    selected single precoding matrix.

                -   When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit wideband spatial
                    differential CQI, which is shown in Table 7.2-2.

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 5 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 5 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' is reported in the most recent RI
                    reporting instance for the CSI process,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value for the CSI
                        process is calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI and the wideband first PMI
                        for the configured \'RI-reference CSI process\'
                        in the most recent RI reporting instance for the
                        CSI process and the last reported periodic CRI
                        for the CSI process.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix for the CSI
                        process and the reported periodic RI for the
                        configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the
                        most recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                        process and the last reported periodic CRI for
                        the CSI process.

                -   Otherwise,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value is calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the wideband first PMI and the last reported
                        periodic CRI.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix and the last
                        reported periodic RI and the last reported
                        periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 5 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 5 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' is reported in the most recent RI
                    reporting instance for the CSI process,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value for the CSI
                        process is calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI and the wideband first PMI
                        for the configured \'RI-reference CSI process\'
                        in the most recent RI reporting instance for the
                        CSI process.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix for the CSI
                        process and the reported periodic RI for the
                        configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the
                        most recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                        process.

                -   Otherwise,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value is calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the wideband first PMI.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix and the last
                        reported periodic RI.

        -   In the subframe where wideband CQI/first PMI/second PMI is
            reported for transmission modes 9 and 10 with submode 2 and
            8 CSI-RS ports configured without CRI reporting and not
            configured with *advancedCodebookEnabled*, or 8 CSI-RS ports
            or 4 CSI-RS ports with
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* in the selected
            CSI-RS resource and UE is configured with CRI reporting, and
            for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10 with submode 2 and
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            without CRI reporting and not configured with
            *advancedCodebookEnabled*:

            -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
                subset assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   A UE shall report a type 2c report consisting of

                -   A single wideband CQI value which is calculated
                    assuming the use of a single precoding matrix in all
                    subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands.

                -   The wideband first PMI and the wideband second PMI
                    corresponding to the selected single precoding
                    matrix as defined in Clause 7.2.4.

                -   When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit wideband spatial
                    differential CQI, which is shown in Table 7.2-2.

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 3 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 3 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' is reported in the most recent RI
                    reporting instance for the CSI process, the wideband
                    first PMI, the wideband second PMI and the wideband
                    CQI for the CSI process are calculated conditioned
                    on the reported periodic RI for the configured
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent RI
                    reporting instance for the CSI process and the last
                    reported periodic CRI for the CSI process; otherwise
                    the wideband first PMI, the wideband second PMI and
                    the wideband CQI are calculated conditioned on the
                    last reported periodic RI and the last reported
                    periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 3 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 3 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' is reported in the most recent RI
                    reporting instance for the CSI process, the wideband
                    first PMI, the wideband second PMI and the wideband
                    CQI for the CSI process are calculated conditioned
                    on the reported periodic RI for the configured
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent RI
                    reporting instance for the CSI process; otherwise
                    the wideband first PMI, the wideband second PMI and
                    the wideband CQI are calculated conditioned on the
                    last reported periodic RI.

-   UE Selected subband feedback

    -   Mode 2-0 description:

        -   In the subframe where RI is reported (only for transmission
            mode 3, and transmission mode 9 or 10 without PMI reporting
            with one configured CSI-RS resource or with more than one
            configured CSI-RS resource and the number of CSI-RS ports of
            the selected CSI-RS is more than one):

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the RI
                for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI in the
                most recent CSI report comprising RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective of subframe
                sets if configured; otherwise, for transmission mode 3
                the UE shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands, and for transmission mode 9 or 10 without
                PMI reporting, the UE shall determine a RI assuming
                transmission on set *S* subbands, and conditioned on the
                last reported periodic CRI if the UE is configured with
                CRI reporting.

            -   The UE shall report a type 3 report consisting of one
                RI.

        -   In the subframe where RI and CRI is reported (for
            transmission mode 9 or 10 without PMI reporting and without
            higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and
            number of configured CSI-RS resources more than one and the
            number of antenna ports in at least one of the configured
            CSI-RS resources is more than one, and for transmission mode
            9 or 10 without PMI reporting and with higher layer
            parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and the
            number of activated CSI-RS resources more than one and the
            number of antenna ports in at least one of the activated
            CSI-RS resources is more than one):

            -   A UE shall determine a CRI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands.

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the RI
                for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI in the
                most recent CSI report comprising RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective of subframe
                sets if configured; otherwise, the UE shall determine a
                RI assuming transmission on set *S* subbands conditioned
                on the reported CRI.

            -   The UE shall report a type 7 report consisting of one RI
                and one CRI.

        -   In the subframe where CRI is reported (only for transmission
            mode 9 or 10 with CRI reporting and the number of antenna
            ports in each of configured CSI-RS resources is one):

            -   A UE shall determine a CRI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands.

            -   The UE shall report a type10 report consisting of one
                CRI.

        -   In the subframe where wideband CQI is reported:

            -   If the UE is configured without PMI reporting (only for
                transmission mode 9 or 10):

                -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the
                    codebook subset assuming transmission on set *S*
                    subbands.

                -   A UE shall report a type 4 report on each respective
                    successive reporting opportunity consisting of

                    -   A single wideband CQI value which is calculated
                        assuming the use of a single precoding matrix in
                        all subbands and transmission on set *S*
                        subbands.

                    -   When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit wideband spatial
                        differential CQI, which is shown in Table 7.2-2.

                -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' for a
                        CSI process, and the most recent type 3 report
                        for the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3
                        report for the \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\'
                        is reported in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process, the subband
                        selection, selected precoding matrix and CQI for
                        the CSI process are calculated conditioned on
                        the reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' in the most
                        recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process
                        and the last reported periodic CRI for the CSI
                        process; otherwise the subband selection,
                        selected precoding matrix and CQI are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the last reported periodic CRI.

                -   otherwise

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' for a
                        CSI process, and the most recent type 3 report
                        for the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3
                        report for the \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\'
                        is reported in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process, the subband
                        selection, selected precoding matrix and CQI for
                        the CSI process are calculated conditioned on
                        the reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' in the most
                        recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                        process; otherwise the subband selection,
                        selected precoding matrix and CQI are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   The UE shall report a type 4 report on each
                    respective successive reporting opportunity
                    consisting of one wideband CQI value which is
                    calculated assuming transmission on set *S*
                    subbands. The wideband CQI represents channel
                    quality for the first codeword, even when RI\>1.

                -   For transmission mode 3 the CQI is calculated
                    conditioned on the last reported periodic RI. For
                    other transmission modes it is calculated
                    conditioned on transmission rank 1. If the UE is
                    configured with CRI reporting, the CQI is calculated
                    conditioned on the last reported periodic CRI.

        -   In the subframe where CQI for the selected subbands is
            reported:

            -   If the UE is configured without PMI reporting (only for
                transmission mode 9 or 10):

                -   The UE shall select the preferred subband within the
                    set of *N~j~* subbands in each of the *J* bandwidth
                    parts where *J* is given in Table 7.2.2-2.

                -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the
                    codebook subset assuming transmission on on the
                    selected subband within the applicable bandwidth
                    part.

                -   The UE shall report a type 1 report per bandwidth
                    part on each respective successive reporting
                    opportunity consisting of:

                    -   CQI value for codeword 0 reflecting transmission
                        only over the selected subband of a bandwidth
                        part determined in the previous step along with
                        the corresponding preferred subband *L*-bit
                        label.

                    -   *When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit subband spatial
                        differential CQI value for codeword 1 offset
                        level*

                        -   *Codeword 1 offset level = subband CQI index
                            for codeword 0 -- subband CQI index for
                            codeword 1.*

                    -   *The mapping from the 3-bit subband spatial
                        differential CQI value to the offset level is
                        shown in Table 7.2-2.*

                -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' for a
                        CSI process, and the most recent type 3 report
                        for the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3
                        report for the \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\'
                        is reported in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process, the selected
                        precoding matrix and CQI for the CSI process are
                        calculated conditioned on the reported periodic
                        RI for the configured \'\'RI-reference CSI
                        process\'\' in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process and the last
                        reported periodic CRI for the CSI process;
                        otherwise the selected precoding matrix and CQI
                        are calculated conditioned on the last reported
                        periodic RI and the last reported periodic CRI.

                -   otherwise,

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\' for a
                        CSI process, and the most recent type 3 report
                        for the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3
                        report for the \'\'RI-reference CSI process\'\'
                        is reported in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process, the selected
                        precoding matrix and CQI for the CSI process are
                        calculated conditioned on the reported periodic
                        RI for the configured \'\'RI-reference CSI
                        process\'\' in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process; otherwise the
                        selected precoding matrix and CQI are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   The UE shall select the preferred subband within the
                    set of ![](media/image463.wmf) subbands in each of
                    the *J* bandwidth parts where *J* is given in Table
                    7.2.2-2.

                -   The UE shall report a type 1 report consisting of
                    one CQI value reflecting transmission only over the
                    selected subband of a bandwidth part determined in
                    the previous step along with the corresponding
                    preferred subband *L*-bit label. A type 1 report for
                    each bandwidth part will in turn be reported in
                    respective successive reporting opportunities. The
                    CQI represents channel quality for the first
                    codeword, even when RI\>1.

                -   For transmission mode 3 the preferred subband
                    selection and CQI values are calculated conditioned
                    on the last reported periodic RI. For other
                    transmission modes they are calculated conditioned
                    on transmission rank 1. If the UE is configured with
                    CRI reporting, the preferred subband selection and
                    CQI values are calculated conditioned on the last
                    reported periodic CRI.

    -   Mode 2-1 description:

        -   In the subframe where RI is reported for transmission mode
            4, transmission mode 8 except with
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured*,*
            transmission modes 9 and 10 with 2 CSI-RS ports, and
            transmission modes 9 and 10 with 4 CSI-RS ports except with
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured, and
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type* configured, *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\',
            one CSI-RS resource configured, with higher layer parameter
            *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*:

            -   If a UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    RI for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI
                    in the most recent CSI report comprising RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective
                    of subframe sets if configured; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                    *S* subbands conditioned on the last reported
                    periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    RI for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI
                    in the most recent CSI report comprising RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective
                    of subframe sets if configured; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                    *S* subbands.

            -   The UE shall report a type 3 report consisting of one
                RI.

        -   In the subframe where RI and PTI are reported, for
            transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports configured
            and higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* not configured, or
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports or 4
            CSI-RS ports with
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* in the selected
            CSI-RS resource and UE is configured with CRI reporting, or
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports
            configured and UE is configured with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and
            one CSI-RS resource configured, and except with higher layer
            parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
            configured, or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* configured, and *eMIMO-Type*
            set to \'CLASS A\',or for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10
            with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            without CRI reporting then:

            -   If a UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    RI for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI
                    in the most recent CSI report comprising RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective
                    of subframe sets if configured; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                    *S* subbands conditioned on the last reported
                    periodic CRI.

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    PTI for the CSI process shall be the same as the PTI
                    in the most recent type 6 report for the configured
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\'; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a precoder type indication (PTI)
                    conditioned on the last reported periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    RI for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI
                    in the most recent CSI report comprising RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective
                    of subframe sets if configured; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a RI assuming transmission on set
                    *S* subbands.

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    PTI for the CSI process shall be the same as the PTI
                    in the most recent type 6 report for the configured
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\'; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a precoder type indication (PTI).

            -   The PTI for the CSI process shall be equal to 1 if the
                RI reported jointly with the PTI is greater than 2 for
                transmission modes 8, 9, 10 with
                *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured.

            -   The UE shall report a type 6 report consisting of one RI
                and the PTI.

        -   In the subframe where RI and CRI are reported for
            transmission modes 9 and 10 with parameter *eMIMO-Type*
            configured by higher layers, except with higher layer
            parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
            set to \'CLASS B\', and the number of configured CSI-RS
            resources is more than one and RI and CRI is reported for
            transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter
            *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and the number of
            activated CSI-RS resources is more than one:

            -   A UE shall determine a CRI assuming transmission on set
                *S* subbands.

            -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the RI
                for the CSI process shall be the same as the RI in the
                most recent CSI report comprising RI for the configured
                \'RI-reference CSI process\' irrespective of subframe
                sets if configured; otherwise, the UE shall determine a
                RI assuming transmission on set *S* subbands conditioned
                on the reported CRI for the CSI process.

            -   If each of the maximum number of ports in the configured
                CSI-RS resources is 2, or 4 except with
                *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured,

                -   The UE shall report a type 7 report consisting of
                    one RI and one CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, the
                    PTI for the CSI process shall be the same as the PTI
                    in the most recent type 6 report for the configured
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\'; otherwise, the UE
                    shall determine a precoder type indication (PTI)
                    conditioned on the reported CRI for the CSI process.

                -   If the configured CSI-RS resource corresponding to
                    the determined CRI comprises 2 CSI-RS ports or 4
                    CSI-RS ports except with
                    alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE
                    configured, PTI is fixed to zero.

                -   The PTI for the CSI process shall be equal to 1 if
                    the RI reported jointly with the PTI is greater than
                    2 for transmission modes 9, 10 with
                    *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE*
                    configured.

                -   The UE shall report a type 9 report consisting of
                    one CRI, RI, and the PTI.

        -   In the subframe where wideband CQI/PMI is reported for all
            transmission modes except with

            -   UE is configured with higher layer parameter
                *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', or

            -   8 CSI-RS ports configured for transmission modes 9 and
                10, or with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE*
                configured for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10, if the UE
                is not configured with higher layer parameter
                *eMIMO-Type*, or UE is configured with CRI reporting, or
                UE is configured with higher layer parameter
                *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\',
                and one CSI-RS resource configured, and except with
                higher layer parameter
                *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured:

                -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the
                    codebook subset assuming transmission on set *S*
                    subbands.

                -   A UE shall report a type 2 report on each respective
                    successive reporting opportunity consisting of:

                    -   A wideband CQI value which is calculated
                        assuming the use of a single precoding matrix in
                        all subbands and transmission on set *S*
                        subbands.

                    -   The selected single PMI (wideband PMI).

                    -   When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit wideband spatial
                        differential CQI, which is shown in Table 7.2-2.

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 3 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 3 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' is reported in the most recent RI
                    reporting instance for the CSI process, the PMI and
                    CQI values for the CSI process are calculated
                    conditioned on the reported periodic RI for the
                    configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process and
                    the last reported periodic CRI for the CSI process;
                    otherwise the PMI and CQI values are calculated
                    conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and the
                    last reported periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   For transmission modes 4, 8, 9 and 10,

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI
                        process, and the most recent type 3 report for
                        the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3 report
                        for the \'RI-reference CSI process\' is reported
                        in the most recent RI reporting instance for the
                        CSI process, the PMI and CQI values for the CSI
                        process are calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent
                        RI reporting instance for the CSI process;
                        otherwise the PMI and CQI values are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI.

                -   For other transmission modes the PMI and CQI values
                    are calculated conditioned on transmission rank 1.

        -   In the subframe where the wideband first PMI is reported for
            transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports configured
            and higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* not configured, or
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports or 4
            CSI-RS ports with
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* in the selected
            CSI-RS resource and UE is configured with CRI reporting, or
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports
            configured and UE is configured with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and
            one CSI-RS resource configured, and except with higher layer
            parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
            configured, or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* configured, and *eMIMO-Type*
            set to \'CLASS A\', or for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10
            with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            without CRI reporting:

            -   A set of precoding matrices corresponding to the
                wideband first PMI is selected from the codebook subset
                assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   A UE shall report a type 2a report on each respective
                successive reporting opportunity consisting of the
                wideband first PMI corresponding to the selected set of
                precoding matrices.

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 6 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' with PTI=0 is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,
                    the wideband first PMI value for the CSI process is
                    calculated conditioned on the reported periodic RI
                    for the configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in
                    the most recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                    process and the last reported periodic CRI for the
                    CSI process; otherwise with the last reported PTI=0,
                    the wideband first PMI value is calculated
                    conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and the
                    last reported periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 6 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' with PTI=0 is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,
                    the wideband first PMI value for the CSI process is
                    calculated conditioned on the reported periodic RI
                    for the configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in
                    the most recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                    process; otherwise with the last reported PTI=0, the
                    wideband first PMI value is calculated conditioned
                    on the last reported periodic RI.

        -   In the subframe where wideband CQI/second PMI is reported,
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports
            configured and higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* not
            configured, or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS
            ports or 4 CSI-RS ports with
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* in the selected
            CSI-RS resource and UE is configured with CRI reporting, or
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports
            configured and UE is configured with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and
            one CSI-RS resource configured, and except with higher layer
            parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
            configured, or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* configured, and *eMIMO-Type*
            set to \'CLASS A\',or for transmission modes 8,9, and 10
            with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            without CRI reporting:

            -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
                subset assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   A UE shall report a type 2b report on each respective
                successive reporting opportunity consisting of:

                -   A wideband CQI value which is calculated assuming
                    the use of the selected single precoding matrix in
                    all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands.

                -   The wideband second PMI corresponding to the
                    selected single precoding matrix.

                -   When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit wideband spatial
                    differential CQI, which is shown in Table 7.2-2.

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 6 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' with PTI=1 is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value for the CSI
                        process is calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent
                        RI reporting instance for the CSI process and
                        the last reported wideband first PMI for the CSI
                        process and the last reported periodic CRI for
                        the CSI process,

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix for the CSI
                        process and the reported periodic RI for the
                        configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the
                        most recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                        process and the last reported periodic CRI for
                        the CSI process.

                -   Otherwise, with the last reported PTI=1,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value is calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the wideband first PMI and the last reported
                        periodic CRI.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix and the last
                        reported periodic RI and the last reported
                        periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 6 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' with PTI=1 is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value for the CSI
                        process is calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent
                        RI reporting instance for the CSI process and
                        the last reported wideband first PMI for the CSI
                        process,

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix for the CSI
                        process and the reported periodic RI for the
                        configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the
                        most recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                        process.

                -   Otherwise, with the last reported PTI=1,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value is calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the wideband first PMI.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix and the last
                        reported periodic RI.

            -   If the last reported first PMI was computed under an RI
                assumption that differs from the last reported periodic
                RI, or in the absence of a last reported first PMI, the
                conditioning of the second PMI value is not specified.

        -   In the subframe where CQI for the selected subband is
            reported for all transmission modes except with

            -   UE is configured with higher layer parameter
                *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', or

            -   8 CSI-RS ports configured for transmission modes 9 and
                10, or with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE*
                configured for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10, if the UE
                is not configured with higher layer parameter
                *eMIMO-Type*, or UE is configured with CRI reporting, or
                UE is configured with higher layer parameter
                *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\',
                and one CSI-RS resource configured, and except with
                higher layer parameter
                *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured:

                -   The UE shall select the preferred subband within the
                    set of *N~j~* subbands in each of the *J* bandwidth
                    parts where *J* is given in Table 7.2.2-2.

                -   The UE shall report a type 1 report per bandwidth
                    part on each respective successive reporting
                    opportunity consisting of:

                    -   CQI value for codeword 0 reflecting transmission
                        only over the selected subband of a bandwidth
                        part determined in the previous step along with
                        the corresponding preferred subband *L*-bit
                        label.

                    -   *When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit subband spatial
                        differential CQI value for codeword 1 offset
                        level*

                        -   *Codeword 1 offset level = subband CQI index
                            for codeword 0 -- subband CQI index for
                            codeword 1.*

                        -   Assuming the use of the most recently
                            reported single precoding matrix in all
                            subbands and transmission on the selected
                            subband within the applicable bandwidth
                            part.

                    -   *The mapping from the 3-bit subband spatial
                        differential CQI value to the offset level is
                        shown in Table 7.2-2.*

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   F If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with
                    a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process,
                    and the most recent type 3 report for the CSI
                    process is dropped, and a type 3 report for the
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,
                    the subband selection and CQI values for the CSI
                    process are calculated conditioned on the last
                    reported periodic wideband PMI for the CSI process
                    and the reported periodic RI for the configured
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent RI
                    reporting instance for the CSI process and the last
                    reported periodic CRI for the CSI process; otherwise
                    the subband selection and CQI values are calculated
                    conditioned on the last reported periodic wideband
                    PMI, RI and CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   For transmission modes 4, 8, 9 and 10,

                    -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10
                        with a \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI
                        process, and the most recent type 3 report for
                        the CSI process is dropped, and a type 3 report
                        for the \'RI-reference CSI process\' is reported
                        in the most recent RI reporting instance for the
                        CSI process, the subband selection and CQI
                        values for the CSI process are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic
                        wideband PMI for the CSI process and the
                        reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent
                        RI reporting instance for the CSI process;
                        otherwise the subband selection and CQI values
                        are calculated conditioned on the last reported
                        periodic wideband PMI and RI.

                -   For other transmission modes the subband selection
                    and CQI values are calculated conditioned on the
                    last reported PMI and transmission rank 1.

        -   In the subframe where wideband CQI/second PMI is reported,
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports
            configured and higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* not
            configured, or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS
            ports or 4 CSI-RS ports with
            *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* in the selected
            CSI-RS resource and UE is configured with CRI reporting, or
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports
            configured and UE is configured with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and
            one CSI-RS resource configured, and except with higher layer
            parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
            configured, or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* configured, and *eMIMO-Type*
            set to \'CLASS A\',or for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10
            with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            without CRI reporting:

            -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
                subset assuming transmission on set *S* subbands.

            -   The UE shall report a type 2b report on each respective
                successive reporting opportunity consisting of:

                -   A wideband CQI value which is calculated assuming
                    the use of the selected single precoding matrix in
                    all subbands and transmission on set *S* subbands.

                -   The wideband second PMI corresponding to the
                    selected single precoding matrix.

                -   When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit wideband spatial
                    differential CQI, which is shown in Table 7.2-2.

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 6 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' with PTI=0 is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value for the CSI
                        process is calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent
                        RI reporting instance for the CSI process and
                        the last reported wideband first PMI for the CSI
                        process and the last reported periodic CRI for
                        the CSI process.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix for the CSI
                        process and the reported periodic RI for the
                        configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the
                        most recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                        process and the last reported periodic CRI for
                        the CSI process.

                -   otherwise, with the last reported PTI=0,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value is calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the wideband first PMI and the last reported
                        periodic CRI.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix and the last
                        reported periodic RI process and the last
                        reported periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 6 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' with PTI=0 is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value for the CSI
                        process is calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent
                        RI reporting instance for the CSI process and
                        the last reported wideband first PMI for the CSI
                        process.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix for the CSI
                        process and the reported periodic RI for the
                        configured \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the
                        most recent RI reporting instance for the CSI
                        process.

                -   Otherwise, with the last reported PTI=0,

                    -   The wideband second PMI value is calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the wideband first PMI.

                    -   The wideband CQI value is calculated conditioned
                        on the selected precoding matrix and the last
                        reported periodic RI.

            -   If the last reported first PMI was computed under an RI
                assumption that differs from the last reported periodic
                RI, or in the absence of a last reported first PMI, the
                conditioning of the second PMI value is not specified.

        -   In the subframe where subband CQI/second PMI for the
            selected subband is reported, for transmission modes 9 and
            10 with 8 CSI-RS ports configured and higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type* not configured, or for transmission modes 9 and
            10 with 8 CSI-RS ports or 4 CSI-RS ports with
            alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE in the selected
            CSI-RS resource and UE is configured with CRI reporting, or
            for transmission modes 9 and 10 with 8 CSI-RS ports
            configured and UE is configured with higher layer parameter
            *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and
            one CSI-RS resource configured, and except with higher layer
            parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
            configured, or for transmission modes 9 and 10 with higher
            layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* configured, and *eMIMO-Type*
            set to \'CLASS A\',or for transmission modes 8, 9 and 10
            with *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured
            without CRI reporting:

            -   The UE shall select the preferred subband within the set
                of *N~j~* subbands in each of the *J* bandwidth parts
                where *J* is given in Table 7.2.2-2.

            -   The UE shall report a type 1a report per bandwidth part
                on each respective successive reporting opportunity
                consisting of:

                -   CQI value for codeword 0 reflecting transmission
                    only over the selected subband of a bandwidth part
                    determined in the previous step along with the
                    corresponding preferred subband *L*-bit label.

                -   *When RI\>1, an additional 3-bit subband spatial
                    differential CQI value for codeword 1 offset level*

                    -   *Codeword 1 offset level = subband CQI index for
                        > codeword 0 -- subband CQI index for
                        > codeword 1.*

                    -   Assuming the use of the precoding matrix
                        > corresponding to the selected second PMI and
                        > the most recently reported first PMI and
                        > transmission on the selected subband within
                        > the applicable bandwidth part.

                -   *The mapping from the 3-bit subband spatial
                    differential CQI value to the offset level is shown
                    in Table 7.2-2.*

                -   *A second PMI of the preferred precoding matrix
                    selected from the codebook subset assuming
                    transmission* only over the selected subband within
                    the applicable bandwidth part determined in the
                    previous step.

            -   If the UE is configured with CRI reporting,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 6 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' with PTI=1 is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,

                    -   The subband second PMI values for the CSI
                        process are calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent
                        RI reporting instance for the CSI process and
                        the last reported wideband first PMI for the CSI
                        process and the last reported periodic CRI for
                        the CSI process.

                    -   The subband selection and CQI values are
                        calculated conditioned on the selected precoding
                        matrix for the CSI process and the reported
                        periodic RI for the configured \'RI-reference
                        CSI process\' in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process and the last
                        reported periodic CRI for the CSI process.

                -   Otherwise, with the last reported PTI=1

                    -   The subband *second* PMI values are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the wideband first PMI and the last reported
                        periodic CRI.

                    -   The subband selection and CQI values are
                        calculated conditioned on the selected precoding
                        matrix and the last reported periodic RI and the
                        last reported periodic CRI.

            -   otherwise,

                -   If a UE is configured in transmission mode 10 with a
                    \'RI-reference CSI process\' for a CSI process, and
                    the most recent type 6 report for the CSI process is
                    dropped, and a type 6 report for the \'RI-reference
                    CSI process\' with PTI=1 is reported in the most
                    recent RI reporting instance for the CSI process,

                    -   The subband second PMI values for the CSI
                        process are calculated conditioned on the
                        reported periodic RI for the configured
                        \'RI-reference CSI process\' in the most recent
                        RI reporting instance for the CSI process and
                        the last reported wideband first PMI for the CSI
                        process.

                    -   The subband selection and CQI values are
                        calculated conditioned on the selected precoding
                        matrix for the CSI process and the reported
                        periodic RI for the configured \'RI-reference
                        CSI process\' in the most recent RI reporting
                        instance for the CSI process.

                -   Otherwise, with the last reported PTI=1

                    -   The subband *second* PMI values are calculated
                        conditioned on the last reported periodic RI and
                        the wideband first PMI.

                    -   The subband selection and CQI values are
                        calculated conditioned on the selected precoding
                        matrix and the last reported periodic RI.

            -   If the last reported first PMI was computed under an RI
                assumption that differs from the last reported periodic
                RI, or in the absence of a last reported first PMI, the
                conditioning of the second PMI value is not specified.

Table 7.2.2-2: Subband Size (*k*) and Bandwidth Parts *(J)* vs. Downlink
System Bandwidth

  ------------------------------------------ ------------------------ -----------------------
  System Bandwidth ![](media/image458.wmf)   Subband Size *k* (RBs)   Bandwidth Parts (*J*)
                                                                      
  6 -- 7                                     NA                       NA
  8 -- 10                                    4                        1
  11 -- 26                                   4                        2
  27 -- 63                                   6                        3
  64 -- 110                                  8                        4
  ------------------------------------------ ------------------------ -----------------------

For a BL/CE UE, the periodic CSI reporting modes are described as
following:

-   Wideband feedback

    -   Mode 1-0 description:

        -   In the subframe where CQI is reported:

            -   A UE shall report a type 4 report consisting of one
                wideband CQI value which is calculated assuming
                transmission on all narrowband(s) in the CSI reference
                resource. The wideband CQI is calculated conditioned on
                transmission rank 1.

    -   Mode 1-1 description:

        -   In the subframe where a first PMI is reported for
            transmission modes 9 configured with submode 1 and 8 CSI-RS
            ports, the UE shall report a type 2a report consisting of a
            first PMI corresponding to a set of precoding matrices
            selected from the codebook subset assuming transmission on
            all narrowband(s) in the CSI reference resource. The
            wideband first PMI value is calculated conditioned on
            transmission rank 1.

        -   In the subframe where wideband CQI/second PMI is reported
            for transmission modes 9 with 8 CSI-RS ports and submode 1:

            -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
                subset assuming transmission on all narrowband(s) in the
                CSI reference resource.

            -   A UE shall report a type 2b report consisting of

                -   A single wideband CQI value which is calculated
                    assuming the use of the single precoding matrix in
                    all narrowband(s) in the CSI reference resource and
                    transmission on all narrowband(s) in the CSI
                    reference resource.

                -   The wideband second PMI corresponding to the
                    selected single precoding matrix.

            -   The wideband second PMI is calculated conditioned on
                transmission rank 1 and the last reported wideband first
                PMI. The wideband CQI is calculated conditioned on the
                selected precoding matrix and transmission rank 1.

        -   In the subframe where wideband CQI/first PMI/second PMI is
            reported for transmission modes 9 with submode 2 and 8
            CSI-RS ports configured:

            -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
                subset assuming transmission on all narrowband(s) in the
                CSI reference resource.

            -   A UE shall report a type 2c report consisting of

                -   A single wideband CQI value which is calculated
                    assuming the use of the single precoding matrix in
                    all narrowband(s) in the CSI reference resource and
                    transmission on all narrowband(s) in the CSI
                    reference resource.

                -   The wideband first PMI and the wideband second PMI
                    corresponding to the selected single precoding
                    matrix as defined in Clause 7.2.4.

            -   The wideband first PMI, the wideband second PMI and the
                wideband CQI are calculated conditioned on transmission
                rank 1.

        -   In the subframe where CQI/PMI is reported:

            -   A single precoding matrix is selected from the codebook
                subset assuming transmission on all narrowband(s) in the
                CSI reference resource. The PMI is calculated
                conditioned on transmission rank 1.

            -   A UE shall report a type 2 report consisting of

                -   A single wideband CQI value which is calculated
                    assuming the use of a single precoding matrix in all
                    narrowband(s) in the CSI reference resource and
                    transmission on all narrowband(s) in the CSI
                    reference resource. The wideband CQI is calculated
                    conditioned on transmission rank 1.

                -   The selected single PMI (wideband PMI).

If parameter *ttiBundling* provided by higher layers is set to *TRUE*
and if an UL-SCH in subframe bundling operation collides with a periodic
CSI reporting instance, then the UE shall drop the periodic CSI report
of a given PUCCH reporting type in that subframe and shall not multiplex
the periodic CSI report payload in the PUSCH transmission in that
subframe. A UE is not expected to be configured with simultaneous PUCCH
and PUSCH transmission when UL-SCH subframe bundling is configured.

If the UE is configured with higher layer paramter
*pusch-EnhancementsConfig*, and if a PUSCH transmission spans more than
one subframe as indicated by the *repetition number* field in DCI 0C,
the UE shall drop the periodic CSI report of a given PUCCH reporting
type in that subframe and shall not multiplex the periodic CSI report
payload in the PUSCH transmission in that subframe. A UE is not expected
to be configured with simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH transmission when
*pusch-EnhancementsConfig* is configured.

Table 7.2.2-3: PUCCH Reporting Type Payload size per PUCCH Reporting
Mode and Mode State

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| PUCCH   | R       | Mode    | PUCCH   |         |         |         |
| Re      | eported | State   | Re      |         |         |         |
| porting |         |         | porting |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Modes   |         |         |         |
| Type    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | Mode    | Mode    | Mode    | Mode    |
|         |         |         | 1-1     | 2-1     | 1-0     | 2-0     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | (bits/  | (bits/  | (bits/  | (bits/  |
|         |         |         | BP^\*^) | BP^\*^) | BP^\*^) | BP^\*^) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 1       | **Sub   | RI = 1  | NA      | 4+L     | NA      | 4+L     |
|         | -band** |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | **CQI** |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | RI \> 1 | NA      | 7+L     | NA      | 4+L^1^  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | 7+L^2^  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 1a      | **S     | 8       | NA      | 8+L     | NA      | NA      |
|         | ub-band | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         | CQI**   | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         | **/     | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         | second  | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         | PMI**   | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *cod    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ebookCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nfig*={ |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2,3,4}, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 1  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | NA      | 9+L     | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *cod    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ebookCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nfig*={ |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2,3,4}, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1 \< RI |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \< 5    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | NA      | 7+L     | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *code   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | bookCon |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | fig*={1 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ,2,3,4} |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI \> 4 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | NA      | 6+L     | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *code   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | bookCon |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | fig*=1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 1  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | NA      | 9+L     | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *code   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | bookCon |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | fig*=1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 2  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | NA      | 8+L     | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *code   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | bookCon |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | fig*=1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \<RI\<5 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | NA      | 8+L     | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI=1    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | NA      | 9+L     | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1\<RI≤4 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 2       | **Wid   | 2       | 6       | 6       | NA      | NA      |
|         | eband** | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         | **CQ    | RI = 1  |         |         |         |         |
|         | I/PMI** |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 8       | 8       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Note^5^ |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2       | 8       | 8       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI \> 1 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 11      | 11      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI \>   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1,      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Note^5^ |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 7       | 7       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Note^6^ |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 10      | 10      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 2, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Note^6^ |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 9       | 9       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 3, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Note^6^ |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 8       | 8       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 4, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Note^6^ |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 8       | 8       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 1  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 11      | 11      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \<RI\<4 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 10      | 10      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 4  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 7       | 7       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI \> 4 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 2a      | **Wid   | 8       | NA      | 4       | NA      | NA      |
|         | eband** | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         | **first | RI \< 3 |         |         |         |         |
|         | PMI**   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | NA      | 2       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports 2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \< RI   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \< 8    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | NA      | 0       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 8  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | NA      | 4       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1≤RI≤2  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | NA      | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2≤RI≤4  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | Note^3^ | Note^3^ | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *code   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | bookCon |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | fig*=1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1≤RI≤8  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | Note^4^ | Note^4^ | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *co     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookC |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | onfig*= |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | {2,3,4} |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 3       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1≤RI≤2  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 0       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 3≤RI≤4  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 6       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1≤RI≤2  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 2       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 3≤RI≤7  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 0       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI=8    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | Note^7^ | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | and     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | O-Type* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | is set  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | to      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \'CLASS |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | A\',    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1≤RI≤8  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | Note^8^ | Note^8^ | Note^8^ | Note^8^ |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | O-Type* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | and     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIMO  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | -Type2* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | con     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | figured |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | by      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | higher  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | layers, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | O-Type* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | is set  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | to      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \'CLASS |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | A\',    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIMO  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | -Type2* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | is set  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | to      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \'CLASS |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | B\',    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | and     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | maximum |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1 or 2  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | layers  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | are     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | su      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | pported |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | by the  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | UE      |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 2b      | **W     | 8       | 8       | 8       | NA      | NA      |
|         | ideband | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         | CQI**   | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         | **/     | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         | second  | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         | PMI**   | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *c      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | odebook |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Config* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | {       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2,3,4}, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 1  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 11      | 11      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *c      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | odebook |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Config* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | {       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2,3,4}, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1 \< RI |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \< 4    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 10      | 10      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *c      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | odebook |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Config* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | {       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2,3,4}, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 4  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 7       | 7       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *c      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | odebook |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | Config* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | {1,     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2,3,4}, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI \> 4 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 8       | 8       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI=1    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 11      | 11      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | port    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1\<RI≤4 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | 6       | 6       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *code   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | bookCon |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | fig*=1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 1  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | 9       | 9       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *code   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | bookCon |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | fig*=1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 2  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | 8       | 8       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *code   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | bookCon |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | fig*=1, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \<RI\<5 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4/8     | 10      | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | and     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | O-Type* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | is set  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | to      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \'CLASS |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | A\', RI |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | = 1     |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4/8     | 11      | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8/12/   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | with    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *adv    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ancedCo |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | debookE |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | nabled* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | =True   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | and     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | O-Type* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | is set  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | to      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \'CLASS |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | A\', RI |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | = 2     |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 2c      | **W     | 8       | 8       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         | ideband | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         | CQI**   | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 1  |         |         |         |         |
|         | **/     |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | first   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | PMI**   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | **/     |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | second  |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | PMI**   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 11      | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports 1 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \< RI ≤ |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4       |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 9       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports 4 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \< RI ≤ |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 7       |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 7       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI = 8  |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 8       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | RI=1    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 11      | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | port    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 1\<RI≤4 |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 3       | **RI**  | 2/4     | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 1       | NA      | NA^1^   | NA^1^   |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         | 1^2^    | 1^2^    |
|         |         | 2-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 2       | 2       | 2       | 2       |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 2       | NA      | NA^1^   | NA^1^   |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         | 2^2^    | 2^2^    |
|         |         | 4-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8-layer | 3       | NA      | NA^1^   | NA^1^   |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         | 3^2^    | 3^2^    |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 12/     | 1       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 12/     | 2       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 12/     | 3       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 4       | **W     | RI = 1  | NA      | NA      | 4       | 4       |
|         | ideband | or      |         |         |         |         |
|         | CQI**   | RI\>1,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | without |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | PMI/RI  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | re      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | porting |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | RI = 1  | NA      | NA      | 4       | 4       |
|         |         | without |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | PMI     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | re      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | porting |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | RI\>1   | NA      | NA      | 7       | 7       |
|         |         | without |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | PMI     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | re      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | porting |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 5       | **RI/   | 8       | 4       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         | first   | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         | PMI**   | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | 5       |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4 and   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 4       |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | 5       |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8/12/   | Note^9^ | Note^9^ | Note^9^ | Note^9^ |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | O-Type* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | and     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIMO  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | -Type2* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | con     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | figured |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | by      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | higher  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | layers, |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | O-Type* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | is set  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | to      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \'CLASS |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | A\',    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | *eMIMO  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | -Type2* |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | is set  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | to      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | \'CLASS |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | B\',    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | and     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | maximum |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4 or 8  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | layers  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | are     |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | su      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | pported |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | by the  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | UE      |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 6       | **R     | 8       | NA      | 2       | NA      | NA      |
|         | I/PTI** | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | NA      | 3       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8       | NA      | 4       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | NA      | 2       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4       | NA      | 3       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 12/     | NA      | 2       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 2-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 12/     | NA      | 3       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 12/     | NA      | 4       | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 16/20/2 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 4/28/32 |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | antenna |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ports,  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | 8-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7       | **C     | 2-layer | *k+*1   | *k+*1   | *k+*1   | *k+*1   |
|         | RI/RI** | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4-layer | *k+*2   | *k+*2   | *k+*2   | *k+*2   |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8-layer | *k+*3   | *k+*3   | *k+*3   | *k+*3   |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8       | **CRI/R | 2-layer | *k+*4   | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         | I/first | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         | PMI**   | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4 and   | *k+*5   | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | 8-layer |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 9       | **CRI/R | 2-layer | NA      | *k+*2   | NA      | NA      |
|         | I/PTI** | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4-layer | NA      | *k+*3   | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8-layer | NA      | *k+*4   | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10      | **CRI** | Without | NA      | NA      | *k*     | *k*     |
|         |         | PMI/RI  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | re      |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | porting |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 11      | **R     | 2-layer | 3       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         | I/RPI** | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 4-layer | 4       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 8-layer | 5       | NA      | NA      | NA      |
|         |         | spatial |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | multi   |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | plexing |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ^\*^:   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| For     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| w       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CQI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| porting |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| types,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| stated  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| applies |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| full    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dwidth. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI/RI  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| porting |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| porting |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *csi    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -RS-NZP |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -mode*, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ](media |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| /image5 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 94.wmf) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![](    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| media/i |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mage595 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .wmf)is |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sources |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| porting |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layer   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *cs     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i-RS-NZ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| P-mode* |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| set to  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \'mult  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| iShot\' |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *ac     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tivated |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Resourc |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| es*\>1, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ](media |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| /image5 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 96.wmf) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *N* is  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ac      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tivated |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| res     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ources. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 3: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sum of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| **      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 5.2.3.3 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .2-3B-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[4\]   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PTI=0** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 4: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sum of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| **      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 5.2.3.3 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .2-3B-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[4\]   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PTI=0** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 5: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Not     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| O-Type* |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -layers |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 6: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *eMIM   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| O-Type* |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -layers |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 7: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sum of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,3  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 5.2.3   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .3.1-4C |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| **of    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[4\]** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 8: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sum of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 5.2.3   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .3.1-4D |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[4\]   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Max 1   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or 2    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layers. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 9: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sum of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| W       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ideband |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| first   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PMI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *i*1,2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and RI  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| width   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 5.2.3   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .3.1-4D |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[4\]   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Max 4   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or 8    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layers. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

###  7.2.3 Channel Quality Indicator (CQI) definition

The CQI indices and their interpretations are given in Table 7.2.3-1,
Table 7.2.3-5, Table 7.2.3-6 for reporting CQI based on QPSK, 16QAM and
64QAM. The CQI indices and their interpretations are given in Table
7.2.3-2 for reporting CQI based on QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM and 256QAM. The
CQI indices and their interpretations are given in Table 7.2.3-3 for
reporting CQI based on QPSK and 16QAM. The CQI indices and their
interpretations are given in Table 7.2.3-4 for reporting CQI based on
QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, 256QAM, and 1024QAM.

For a non-BL/CE UE, based on an unrestricted observation interval in
time unless specified otherwise in this Clause, and an unrestricted
observation interval in frequency, the UE shall derive for each CQI
value reported in uplink subframe*/slot/subslot* *n* the highest CQI
index between 1 and 15 in Table 7.2.3-1, Table 7.2.3-2 or Table 7.2.3-4
which satisfies the following condition, or CQI index 0 if CQI index 1
does not satisfy the condition:

\- A single PDSCH transport block with a combination of modulation
scheme and transport block size corresponding to the CQI index, and
occupying a group of downlink physical resource blocks termed the CSI
reference resource, could be received with a transport block error
probability not exceeding 0.1.

For a BL/CE UE, based on an unrestricted observation interval in time
and frequency, the UE shall derive for each CQI value the highest CQI
index in Table 7.2.3-3, Table 7.2.3-5 or Table 7.2.3-6 which satisfies
the following condition, or CQI index 0 if CQI index 1 does not satisfy
the condition:

\- A single PDSCH transport block with a combination of modulation
scheme and transport block size corresponding to the CQI index, and
occupying a group of downlink physical resource blocks termed the CSI
reference resource, could be received with a transport block error
probability not exceeding 0.1.

If CSI subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image597.wmf)
are configured by higher layers, each CSI reference resource belongs to
either ![](media/image337.wmf) or ![](media/image598.wmf) but not to
both. When CSI subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and
![](media/image597.wmf) are configured by higher layers a UE is not
expected to receive a trigger for which the CSI reference resource is in
subframe that does not belong to either subframe set. For a UE in
transmission mode 10 and periodic CSI reporting, the CSI subframe set
for the CSI reference resource is configured by higher layers for each
CSI process.

If the UE is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type2* by higher layers
for a CSI process, for computing the CQI value for *eMIMO-Type2* of the
CSI process, the parameter *eMIMO-Type* in the rest of this Clause
refers to the parameter *eMIMO-Type2* for the CSI process.

For a UE in transmission mode 9 when parameter *pmi-RI-Report* is
configured by higher layers and parameter *eMIMO-Type* is not configured
by higher layers, the UE shall derive the channel measurements for
computing the CQI value reported in uplink subframe*/slot/subslot* *n*
based on only the Channel-State Information (CSI) reference signals
(CSI-RS) defined in \[3\] for which the UE is configured to assume
non-zero power for the CSI-RS. For a non-BL/CE UE in transmission mode 9
when the parameter *pmi-RI-Report* is not configured by higher layers or
in transmission modes 1-8 the UE shall derive the channel measurements
for computing CQI based on CRS. For a BL/CE UE, the UE shall derive the
channel measurements for computing CQI based on CSI-RS if configured
with the higher layer parameter *ce-CSI-RS-Feedback* for transmission
mode 9 and the number of CSI-RS ports=8, otherwise based on CRS.

For a UE in transmission mode 10, when parameter *eMIMO-Type* is not
configured by higher layers, the UE shall derive the channel
measurements for computing the CQI value reported in uplink
subframe*/slot/subslot* *n* and corresponding to a CSI process, based on
only the non-zero power CSI-RS (defined in \[3\]) within a configured
CSI-RS resource associated with the CSI process.

For a UE in transmission mode 9 and the UE configured with parameter
*eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, the term \'CSI process\' in this clause
refers to the CSI configured for the UE.

For a UE in transmission mode 9 or 10 and for a CSI process, if the UE
is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
or the UE is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers,
and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and parameter
*channelMeasRestriction* is not configured by higher layers, the UE
shall derive the channel measurements for computing the CQI value
reported in uplink subframe *n* and corresponding to the CSI process,
based on only the non-zero power CSI-RS (defined in \[3\]) within a
configured CSI-RS resource associated with the CSI process. If the UE is
configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, except with
higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS B\' and the number of configured CSI-RS resources is
K\>1, and parameter *channelMeasRestriction* is not configured by higher
layers, the UE shall derive the channel measurements for computing the
CQI value using only the configured CSI-RS resource indicated by the
CRI. If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*
set to \'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
\'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources is more than
one, and parameter *channelMeasRestriction* is not configured by higher
layers, the UE shall derive the channel measurements for computing the
CQI value using only the activated CSI-RS resource indicated by CRI.

For a UE in transmission mode 9 or 10 and for a CSI process, if the UE
is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and parameter
*channelMeasRestriction* is configured by higher layers, the UE shall
derive the channel measurements for computing the CQI value reported in
uplink subframe *n* and corresponding to the CSI process, based on only
the most recent, no later than the CSI reference resource, non-zero
power CSI-RS (defined in \[3\]) within a configured CSI-RS resource
associated with the CSI process. If the UE is configured with parameter
*eMIMO-Type* by higher layers, except with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\' and
the number of configured CSI-RS resources is K\>1, and parameter
*channelMeasRestriction* is configured by higher layers, the UE shall
derive the channel measurements for computing the CQI value using only
the most recent, no later than the CSI reference resource, non-zero
power CSI-RS within the configured CSI-RS resource indicated by the CRI.
If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to
\'CLASS B\' and higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to
\'multiShot\', and the number of activated CSI-RS resources is more than
one, and parameter *channelMeasRestriction* is configured by higher
layers, the UE shall derive the channel measurements for computing the
CQI value using only the most recent, no later than the CSI reference
resource, non-zero power CSI-RS within the activated CSI-RS resource
indicated by the CRI.

For a UE in transmission mode 10, when parameter *eMIMO-Type* is not
configured by higher layers, the UE shall derive the interference
measurements for computing the CQI value reported in uplink
subframe*/slot/subslot* *n* and corresponding to a CSI process, based on
only the configured CSI-IM resource associated with the CSI process.

For a UE in transmission mode 10 and for a CSI process, when parameters
*eMIMO-Type* and *interferenceMeasRestriction* is configured by higher
layers, the UE shall derive the interference measurements for computing
the CQI value reported in uplink subframe *n* and corresponding to the
CSI process, based on only the most recent, no later than the CSI
reference resource, configured CSI-IM resource associated with the CSI
process. If the UE is configured with parameter *eMIMO-Type* by higher
layers, except with higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode configured*,
and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\' and the number of configured
CSI-RS resources is K\>1, and *interferenceMeasRestriction* is
configured, the UE shall derive interference measurement for computing
the CQI value based on only the most recent, no later than the CSI
reference resource, the configured CSI-IM resource associated with the
CSI-RS resource indicated by the CRI. If the UE is configured with
higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* set to \'CLASS B\' and higher layer
parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* set to \'multiShot\', and the number of
activated CSI-RS resources is K\>1, and *interferenceMeasRestriction* is
configured, the UE shall derive interference measurement for computing
the CQI value based on only the most recent, no later than the CSI
reference resource, the configured CSI-IM resource associated with the
activated CSI-RS resource indicated by the CRI. If
*interferenceMeasRestriction* is not configured, the UE shall derive the
interference measurement for computing the CQI value based on the CSI-IM
associated with the CSI-RS resource indicated by the CRI.

If the UE in transmission mode 10 is configured by higher layers for CSI
subframe sets ![](media/image337.wmf) and ![](media/image597.wmf) for
the CSI process, the configured CSI-IM resource within the subframe
subset belonging to the CSI reference resource is used to derive the
interference measurement.

For a UE configured with the parameter *EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12*
for a serving cell, configured CSI-IM resource(s) within only downlink
subframe(s) of a radio frame that are indicated by UL/DL configuration
of the serving cell can be used to derive the interference measurement
for the serving cell.

For a LAA Scell,

\- for channel measurements, if the UE averages CRS/CSI-RS measurements
from multiple subframes

\- the UE should not average CSI-RS measurement in subframe n1 with
CSI-RS measurement in a later subframe n2, if any OFDM symbol of
subframe n1 or any subframe from subframe n1+1 to subframe n2, is not
occupied.

\- the UE should not average CRS measurement in subframe n1 with CRS
measurement in a later subframe n2, if any OFDM symbol of the second
slot of subframe n1 or any OFDM symbol of any subframe from subframe
n1+1 to subframe n2-1, or any of the first 3 OFDM symbols in subframe
n2, is not occupied.

\- for interference measurements, the UE shall derive the interference
measurements for computing the CQI value based on only measurements in
subframes with occupied OFDM symbols.

A combination of modulation scheme and transport block size corresponds
to a CQI index if:

\- the combination could be signalled for transmission on the PDSCH in
the CSI reference resource according to the relevant Transport Block
Size table, and

\- the modulation scheme is indicated by the CQI index, and

\- the combination of transport block size and modulation scheme when
applied to the reference resource results in the effective channel code
rate which is the closest possible to the code rate indicated by the CQI
index. If more than one combination of transport block size and
modulation scheme results in an effective channel code rate equally
close to the code rate indicated by the CQI index, only the combination
with the smallest of such transport block sizes is relevant.

The CSI reference resource for a serving cell is defined as follows:

\- For a non-BL/CE UE, in the frequency domain, the CSI reference
resource is defined by the group of downlink physical resource blocks
corresponding to the band to which the derived CQI value relates. For a
BL/CE UE, in the frequency domain, the CSI reference resource includes
all downlink physical resource blocks for any of the narrowband to which
the derived CQI value relates.

\- In the time domain and for a non-BL/CE UE,

\- for a UE configured in transmission mode 1-9 or transmission mode 10
with a single configured CSI process for the serving cell, the CSI
reference resource is defined by a single downlink subframe/slot/subslot
or special subframe or a slot in a special subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~*,

\- where for periodic CSI reporting *n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value
greater than or equal to
![](media/image599.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.25in"},
such that it corresponds to a valid downlink or valid special subframe,

\- where for aperiodic CSI reporting, if the UE is not configured with
the higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12,* and

\- where for LAA serving cell,

\- if aperiodic CSI reporting is triggered by DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B
with \'PUSCH trigger A\' set to 1,

> *- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to
> ![](media/image600.wmf), such that subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~*
> corresponds to a valid downlink subframe no later than the subframe in
> which DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B with \'PUSCH trigger A\' set to 1 is
> received.

\- if aperiodic CSI reporting is triggered by DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B
with \'PUSCH trigger A\' set to 0,

> *- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to
> ![](media/image600.wmf), such that subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~*
> corresponds to a valid downlink subframe.
>
> \- otherwise,
>
> \- *n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to
> ![](media/image600.wmf), such that subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~*
> corresponds to a valid downlink subframe.

\- where for FDD serving cell or TDD serving cell,

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is such that the reference resource is in the same valid
downlink subframe/slot/subslot or valid special subframe or a valid slot
in a special subframe as the corresponding CSI request in an uplink DCI
format.

\- *n~CQI\_ref~* is equal to 4 and subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~*
corresponds to a valid downlink or valid special subframe, where
subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~ is* received after the subframe with the
corresponding CSI request in a Random Access Response Grant.

\- where for aperiodic CSI reporting, and the UE configured with the
higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12*,

\- for the UE configured in transmission mode 1-9,

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to

-   ![](media/image600.wmf) for aperiodic CSI reporting on
    > subframe-PUSCH

-   4 for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot-PUSCH if the higher layer
    > parameter dl-TTI-Length is set to slot

-   ![](media/image601.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"} for
    > aperiodic CSI reporting on subslot-PUSCH

-   Subslot *n~CQI\_ref~* is not later than

-   subslot 0 of subframe *n-2* for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot 0 of
    > subframe *n*

-   subslot 3 of subframe *n-2* for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot 1 of
    > subframe *n*

> if the higher layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length* is set to \'subslot\',
> and the higher layer parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'slot\'

and subframe/slot/subslot *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~* corresponds to a valid
downlink subframe/slot/subslot or valid special subframe or a valid slot
in a special subframe, where subframe/slot/subslot *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~ is*
received on or after the subframe/slot/subslot with the corresponding
CSI request in an uplink DCI format;

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to 4, and
subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~* corresponds to a valid downlink or valid
special subframe, where subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~ is* received after the
subframe with the corresponding CSI request in a Random Access Response
Grant;

\- if there is no valid value for *n~CQI\_ref~* based on the above
conditions, then *n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value such that the
reference resource is in a valid downlink subframe/slot/subslot or valid
special subframe or a valid slot in a special subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~
prior to the* subframe/slot/subslot with the corresponding CSI request,
where subframe/slot/subslot *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~ is the* **lowest indexed
valid downlink** subframe/slot/subslot or valid special **subframe** or
a valid slot in a special subframe **within a radio frame**;

\- for the UE configured in transmission mode 10,

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to

-   ![](media/image600.wmf) for aperiodic CSI reporting on
    subframe-PUSCH,

-   4 for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot-PUSCH if the higher layer
    > parameter dl-TTI-Length is set to slot

-   ![](media/image601.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"} for
    > aperiodic CSI reporting on subslot-PUSCH

-   Subslot *n~CQI\_ref~* is not later than

-   subslot 0 of subframe *n-2* for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot 0 of
    > subframe *n*

-   subslot 3 of subframe *n-2* for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot 1 of
    > subframe *n*

if the higher layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length* is set to \'subslot\', and
the higher layer parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'slot\'such that
it corresponds to a valid downlink subframe/slot/subslot or valid
special subframe or a valid slot in a special subframe, and the
corresponding CSI request is in an uplink DCI format;

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to 4, and
subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~* corresponds to a valid downlink or valid
special subframe, where subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~ is* received after the
subframe with the corresponding CSI request in a Random Access Response
Grant;

\- for a UE configured in transmission mode 10 with multiple configured
CSI processes for the serving cell, the CSI reference resource for a
given CSI process is defined by a single downlink subframe/slot/subslot
or special subframe or a valid slot in a special subframe
*n*-*n~CQI\_ref~*,

\- where for FDD serving cellsubslot *n~CQI\_ref~* is not later than

\- subslot 5 of subframe *n-3* for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot 0 of
subframe *n*

\- subslot 2 of subframe *n-2* for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot 1 of
subframe *n*

if the higher layer parameter *dl-TTI-Length* is set to subslot, and the
higher layer parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to slot

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to

\- 5 for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot-PUSCH if the higher layer
parameter *dl-TTI-Length* is set to \'slot\'

\- ![](media/image602.wmf) for aperiodic CSI reporting on subslot-PUSCH,

*-* ![](media/image600.wmf)*+1*, otherwise

such that it corresponds to a valid downlink subframe/slot/subslot or
valid special subframe or a valid slot in a special subframe, and for
aperiodic CSI reporting the corresponding CSI request is in an uplink
DCI format;

\- where for FDD serving cell and aperiodic CSI reporting *n~CQI\_ref~*
is equal to 5 and subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~* corresponds to a valid
downlink or valid special subframe, where subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~ is*
received after the subframe with the corresponding CSI request in a
Random Access Response Grant.

\- where for TDD serving cell, and 2 or 3 configured CSI processes, and
periodic or aperiodic CSI reporting, *n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value
greater than or equal to 4 for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot-based
PUSCH, and ![](media/image600.wmf) otherwise, such that it corresponds
to a valid downlink or valid special subframe or a valid slot in a
special subframe, and for aperiodic CSI reporting the corresponding CSI
request is in an uplink DCI format;

\- where for TDD serving cell, and 2 or 3 configured CSI processes, and
aperiodic CSI reporting, *n~CQI\_ref~* is equal to 4 and subframe
*n*-*n~CQI\_ref~* corresponds to a valid downlink or valid special
subframe, where subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~ is* received after the
subframe with the corresponding CSI request in a Random Access Response
Grant;

\- where for TDD serving cell, and 4 configured CSI processes, and
periodic or aperiodic CSI reporting, *n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value
greater than or equal to 5 for aperiodic CSI reporting on slot-based
PUSCH, and ![](media/image603.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.25in"} otherwise, such that it corresponds to a valid downlink
or valid special subframe or a valid slot in a special subframe, and for
aperiodic CSI reporting the corresponding CSI request is in an uplink
DCI format;

\- where for TDD serving cell, and 4 configured CSI processes, and
aperiodic CSI reporting, *n~CQI\_ref~* is equal to 5 and subframe
*n*-*n~CQI\_ref~* corresponds to a valid downlink or valid special
subframe, where subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~ is* received after the
subframe with the corresponding CSI request in a Random Access Response
Grant.

\- where for LAA serving cell and periodic CSI reporting, *n~CQI\_ref~*
is the smallest value greater than or equal to
![](media/image603.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"},
such that it corresponds to a valid downlink subframe.

\- where for LAA serving cell and aperiodic CSI reporting, and

\- if aperiodic CSI reporting is triggered by DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B
with \'PUSCH trigger A\' set to 1,

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to
![](media/image600.wmf)*+1*, such that subframe
*n*-*n~CQI\_ref\ ~*corresponds to a valid downlink subframe no later
than the subframe in which DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B with \'PUSCH trigger
A\' set to 1 is received.

\- if aperiodic CSI reporting is triggered by DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B
with \'PUSCH trigger A\' set to 0,

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to
![](media/image600.wmf)*+1*, such that subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~*
corresponds to a valid downlink subframe.

\- otherwise,

*- n~CQI\_ref~* is the smallest value greater than or equal to 5, such
that subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~* corresponds to a valid downlink
subframe.

\- In the time domain and for a BL/CE UE, the CSI reference resource is
defined by a set of BL/CE downlink or special subframes where the last
subframe is subframe *n*-*n~CQI\_ref~*,

> \- where for periodic CSI reporting *n~CQI\_ref~* is ≥ 4;
>
> \- where for aperiodic CSI reporting *n~CQI\_ref~* is ≥ 4;

where each subframe in the CSI reference resource is a valid downlink or
valid special subframe;

\- where for wideband CSI reports:

\- The set of BL/CE downlink or special subframes is the set of the last
![](media/image604.wmf) subframes before *n*-*n~CQI\_ref\ ~*used for
MPDCCH monitoring by the BL/CE UE in each of the narrowbands where the
BL/CE UE monitors MPDCCH, where ![](media/image605.wmf) is the number of
narrowbands where the BL/CE UE monitors MPDCCH.

\- where for subband CSI reports:

\- The set of BL/CE downlink or special subframes is the set of the last
![](media/image606.wmf)subframes used for MPDCCH monitoring by the BL/CE
UE in the corresponding narrowband before *n*-*n~CQI\_ref\ ~*;

> \- where ![](media/image606.wmf)is given by the \"repetition\" column
> when UE is configured to report the CQI according to Table 7.2.3-6,
> otherwise by the higher layer parameter *csi-NumRepetitionCE*.

A subframe/slot/subslot in a serving cell shall be considered to be a
valid downlink subframe/slot/subslot or a valid special subframe or a
valid slot in a special subframe if:

\- it is configured as a downlink subframe/slot/subslot or a special
subframe or a slot in a special subframe for that UE, and

\- in case multiple cells with different uplink-downlink configurations
are aggregated and the UE is not capable of simultaneous reception and
transmission in the aggregated cells, the subframe/slot/subslot in the
primary cell is a downlink subframe or a special subframe with the
length of DwPTS more than ![](media/image607.wmf) for subframe-based
transmissions, or the slot is a first slot of DwPTS for special subframe
configurations 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10, or the second slot of DwPTS for
special subframe configurations 3,4,8 for slot-based transmissions, and

\- except for a non-BL/CE UE in transmission mode 9 or 10, the
subframe/slot/subslot is not in an MBSFN subframe, and

> \- in case of TDD

\- and subframe-based transmissions, the subframe does not contain a
DwPTS field in case the length of DwPTS is ![](media/image607.wmf) and
less,

\- and slot-based transmission,

\- the slot is not a slot of DwPTS for special subframe configurations
0, 5,

\- the slot is not the second slot of DwPTS for special subframe
configurations 1, 2, 6, 7.

\- it is not a special subframe with special subframe configuration 10
configured by *ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS*, and

\- it does not fall within a configured measurement gap for that UE, and

\- for periodic CSI reporting, it is an element of the CSI subframe set
linked to the periodic CSI report when that UE is configured with CSI
subframe sets, and

\- for a UE configured in transmission mode 10 with multiple configured
CSI processes, and aperiodic CSI reporting for a CSI process, it is an
element of the CSI subframe set linked to the downlink or special
subframe containing the subframe/slot/subslot with the corresponding CSI
request in an uplink DCI format, when that UE is configured with CSI
subframe sets for the CSI process and UE is not configured with the
higher layer parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12*, and

\- for a UE configured in transmission mode 1-9, and aperiodic CSI
reporting, it is an element of the CSI subframe set associated with the
corresponding CSI request in an uplink DCI format, when that UE is
configured with CSI subframe sets by the higher layer parameter
*csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12*, and

\- for a UE configured in transmission mode 10, and aperiodic CSI
reporting for a CSI process, it is an element of the CSI subframe set
associated with the corresponding CSI request in an uplink DCI format,
when that UE is configured with CSI subframe sets by the higher layer
parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for the CSI process.

\- except if the serving cell is a LAA Scell, and at least one OFDM
symbol in the subframe is not occupied.

\- except if the serving cell is a LAA Scell, and
![](media/image608.wmf)as described in sub clause 6.10.1.1 in \[3\].

\- except if the serving cell is a LAA Scell, and for a UE configured in
transmission mode 9 or 10, the configured CSI-RS resource associated
with the CSI process is not in the subframe.

For a non-BL/CE UE, if there is no valid downlink subframe/slot/subslot
or no valid special subframe or no valid slot in a special subframe for
the CSI reference resource in a serving cell, CSI reporting is omitted
for the serving cell in uplink subframe/slot/subslot *n*.

\- In the layer domain, the CSI reference resource is defined by any RI
and PMI on which the CQI is conditioned.

In the CSI reference resource, the UE shall assume the following for the
purpose of deriving the CQI index, and if also configured, PMI and RI
except when the CSI request field from an uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B is
set to trigger a report:

\- The first 3 OFDM symbols are occupied by control signalling

\- No resource elements used by primary or secondary synchronization
signals or PBCH or EPDCCH

\- CP length of the non-MBSFN subframes

\- Redundancy Version 0

\- If CSI-RS is used for channel measurements, the ratio of PDSCH EPRE
to CSI-RS EPRE is as given in Clause 7.2.5

\- For transmission mode 9 CSI reporting of a non-BL/CE UE:

\- CRS REs are as in non-MBSFN subframes;

> \- If the UE is configured for PMI/RI reporting or without PMI
> reporting, the UE-specific reference signal overhead is consistent
> with the most recent reported rank if more than one CSI-RS port is
> configured, and is consistent with rank 1 transmission if only one
> CSI-RS port is configured; and PDSCH signals on antenna ports
> ![](media/image609.wmf) for ![](media/image610.wmf)layers would result
> in signals equivalent to corresponding symbols transmitted on antenna
> ports ![](media/image611.wmf), as given by,

if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop*,

![](media/image612.wmf) for ![](media/image613.wmf)

![](media/image614.wmf) ![](media/image615.wmf) for
![](media/image616.wmf)

where ![](media/image617.wmf) is a vector of symbols from the layer
mapping in clause 6.3.3.2 of \[3\], ![](media/image618.wmf)is the number
of CSI-RS ports configured, and if UE reports a PMI,
![](media/image619.wmf) where ![](media/image620.wmf) associated with
PMI codebook Table 7.2.4-0A and Table 7.2.4-0B for 4 antenna ports when
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* is configured,
![](media/image621.wmf) associated with PMI codebook Table 7.2.4-1 and
Table 7.2.4-2 for 8 antenna ports when higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* is not configured, ![](media/image622.wmf) associated with
PMI codebook Table 7.2.4-10 and Table 7.2.4-11 for 8/12/16/20/24/28/32
antenna ports when higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* is configured,
and where ![](media/image623.wmf) is the column vector associated with
the reported first PMI *i*~1~ and the second PMI *i*~2~ configured
according to codebook subset restriction, and otherwise
![](media/image624.wmf) is the selected precoding matrix corresponding
to the reported CQI applicable to ![](media/image625.wmf). The
corresponding PDSCH signals transmitted on antenna ports
![](media/image611.wmf) would have a ratio of EPRE to CSI-RS EPRE equal
to the ratio given in clause 7.2.5,

otherwise,

![](media/image626.wmf),

where ![](media/image617.wmf) is a vector of symbols from the layer
mapping in Clause 6.3.3.2 of \[3\], ![](media/image627.wmf) is the
number of CSI-RS ports configured, and if only one CSI-RS port is
configured, ![](media/image628.wmf)is 1, otherwise for UE configured for
PMI/RI reporting ![](media/image629.wmf)is the precoding matrix
corresponding to the reported PMI applicable to ![](media/image625.wmf)
and for UE configured without PMI reporting ![](media/image629.wmf)is
the selected precoding matrix corresponding to the reported CQI
applicable to ![](media/image625.wmf). The corresponding PDSCH signals
transmitted on antenna ports ![](media/image611.wmf) would have a ratio
of EPRE to CSI-RS EPRE equal to the ratio given in Clause 7.2.5.

\- For transmission mode 10 CSI reporting, if a CSI process is
configured without PMI/RI reporting:

\- If the number of antenna ports of the associated CSI-RS resource is
one, a PDSCH transmission is on single-antenna port, port 7. The channel
on antenna port {7} is inferred from the channel on antenna port {15} of
the associated CSI-RS resource.

\- CRS REs are as in non-MBSFN subframes. The CRS overhead is assumed to
be the same as the CRS overhead corresponding to the number of CRS
antenna ports of the serving cell;

\- The UE-specific reference signal overhead is 12 REs per PRB pair.

\- Otherwise,

\- If the number of antenna ports of the associated CSI-RS resource is
2, the PDSCH transmission scheme assumes the transmit diversity scheme
defined in Clause 7.1.2 on antenna ports {0,1} except that the channels
on antenna ports {0,1} are inferred from the channels on antenna port
{15, 16} of the associated CSI resource respectively.

\- If the number of antenna ports of the associated CSI-RS resource is
4, the PDSCH transmission scheme assumes the transmit diversity scheme
defined in Clause 7.1.2 on antenna ports {0,1,2,3} except that the
channels on antenna ports {0,1,2,3} are inferred from the channels on
antenna ports {15, 16, 17, 18} of the associated CSI-RS resource
respectively.

\- The UE is not expected to be configured with more than 4 antenna
ports for the CSI-RS resource associated with the CSI process configured
without PMI/RI reporting.

\- The overhead of CRS REs is assuming the same number of antenna ports
as that of the associated CSI-RS resource.

\- UE-specific reference signal overhead is zero.

\- For transmission mode 10 CSI reporting, if a CSI process is
configured with PMI/RI reporting or without PMI reporting:

\- CRS REs are as in non-MBSFN subframes. The CRS overhead is assumed to
be the same as the CRS overhead corresponding to the number of CRS
antenna ports of the serving cell;

\- The UE-specific reference signal overhead is consistent with the most
recent reported rank for the CSI process if more than one CSI-RS port is
configured, and is consistent with rank 1 transmission if only one
CSI-RS port is configured; and PDSCH signals on antenna ports
![](media/image609.wmf)for ![](media/image610.wmf)layers would result in
signals equivalent to corresponding symbols transmitted on antenna ports
![](media/image611.wmf), as given by,

> if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop* and
> not configured with higher layer parameter *FeCoMPCSIEnabled*,

![](media/image630.wmf) for ![](media/image613.wmf)

![](media/image614.wmf) ![](media/image631.wmf) for
![](media/image632.wmf)

where ![](media/image617.wmf) is a vector of symbols from the layer
mapping in clause 6.3.3.2 of \[3\], ![](media/image618.wmf)is the number
of CSI-RS ports configured, and if UE reports a PMI,
![](media/image633.wmf) where ![](media/image620.wmf) associated with
PMI codebook Table 7.2.4-0A and Table 7.2.4-0B for 4 antenna ports when
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* is configured,
![](media/image621.wmf) associated with PMI codebook Table 7.2.4-1 and
Table 7.2.4-2 for 8 antenna ports when higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* is not configured, ![](media/image622.wmf) associated with
PMI codebook Table 7.2.4-10 and Table 7.2.4-11 for 8/12/16/20/24/28/32
antenna ports when higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* is configured,
and where ![](media/image623.wmf) is the column vector associated with
the reported first PMI *i*~1~ and the second PMI *i*~2~ configured
according to codebook subset restriction, and otherwise
![](media/image624.wmf) is the selected precoding matrix corresponding
to the reported CQI applicable to ![](media/image625.wmf). The
corresponding PDSCH signals transmitted on antenna ports
![](media/image611.wmf) would have a ratio of EPRE to CSI-RS EPRE equal
to the ratio given in clause 7.2.5,

> otherwise if the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
> *FeCoMPCSIEnabled* or the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
> *FeCoMPCSIEnabled* and UE reports *CRI* with value of 0 or 1,

![](media/image626.wmf),

where ![](media/image617.wmf) is a vector of symbols from the layer
mapping in Clause 6.3.3.2 of \[3\], ![](media/image634.wmf) is the
number of antenna ports of the associated CSI-RS resource, and if
*P*=1,![](media/image628.wmf)is 1, otherwise for UE configured for
PMI/RI reporting ![](media/image629.wmf)is the precoding matrix
corresponding to the reported PMI applicable to ![](media/image625.wmf)
and for UE configured without PMI reporting ![](media/image629.wmf)is
the selected precoding matrix corresponding to the reported CQI
applicable to ![](media/image625.wmf). The corresponding PDSCH signals
transmitted on antenna ports ![](media/image611.wmf) would have a ratio
of EPRE to CSI-RS EPRE equal to the ratio given in Clause 7.2.5,

> otherwise if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
> *FeCoMPCSIEnabled* and UE reports *CRI*=2 then the PDSCH signals on
> antenna ports corresponding to ![](media/image635.wmf)layers of
> codeword *k* would result in signals equivalent to corresponding
> symbols transmitted on antenna ports ![](media/image636.wmf)
> corresponding to the (*k*+1)th CSI-RS resource, where
> ![](media/image637.wmf) are the number of antenna ports for the
> (*k*+1)th CSI-RS resource, as given by

$\begin{bmatrix}
y_{k}^{(15)}(i) \\
 \vdots \\
y_{k}^{(14 + P_{k})}(i) \\
\end{bmatrix} = W_{k}\left( i \right)\begin{bmatrix}
x_{k}^{\left( 0 \right)}\left( i \right) \\
 \vdots \\
x_{k}^{\left( \upsilon_{k} - 1 \right)}\left( i \right) \\
\end{bmatrix},k = 0,1$

where ![](media/image638.wmf) is a vector of symbols from the layer
mapping in Clause 6.3.3.2 of \[3\] for codeword *k*=0, 1 and where the
CSI corresponding to a codeword is calculated based on the assumption
that inter-codeword interference is derived from channel measurement
obtained from the NZP CSI-RS resource and the precoding matrix
corresponding to the other codeword. The corresponding PDSCH signals
transmitted on antenna ports ![](media/image639.wmf) would have a ratio
of EPRE to CSI-RS EPRE equal to the ratio given in Clause 7.2.5 for the
(*k*+1)th CSI-RS resource. If ![](media/image640.wmf)=1, then
![](media/image641.wmf) is 1 otherwise for UE configured for PMI/RI
reporting ![](media/image642.wmf) is the precoding matrix corresponding
to the reported PMI applicable to ![](media/image643.wmf) and for UE
configured without PMI reporting ![](media/image644.wmf)is the selected
precoding matrix corresponding to the reported CQI applicable to
![](media/image645.wmf).

\- Assume no REs allocated for CSI-RS and zero-power CSI-RS

\- Assume no REs allocated for PRS

\- The PDSCH transmission scheme given by Table 7.2.3-0 depending on the
transmission mode currently configured for the UE (which may be the
default mode).

\- If CRS is used for channel measurements, the ratio of PDSCH EPRE to
cell-specific RS EPRE is as given in Clause 5.2 with the exception
of ![](media/image646.wmf)which shall be assumed to be

\- ![](media/image647.wmf)\[dB\] for any modulation scheme, if the UE is
configured with transmission mode 2 with 4 cell-specific antenna ports,
or transmission mode 3 with 4 cell-specific antenna ports and the
associated RI is equal to one;

\- ![](media/image648.wmf)\[dB\] for any modulation scheme and any
number of layers, otherwise.

> The shift ![](media/image649.wmf)is given by the parameter
> *nomPDSCH-RS-EPRE-Offset* which is configured by higher-layer
> signalling.

When the CSI request field from an uplink DCI format 7-0A/7-0B is set to
trigger a report, the UE shall assume the number of available REs
assumed for the reference resource for the purpose of deriving the CQI
index, and if also configured, PMI and RI is:

**- half of the number of available REs assumed for the reference
resource when the CSI request field from an uplink DCI format other than
7-0A/7-0B is set to** trigger a report if the UE is configured for
slot-based uplink transmissions,

\- one sixth of the number of available REs assumed for the reference
resource when the **CSI request field from an uplink DCI format other
than 7-0A/7-0B is set to** trigger a report if the UE is configured for
subslot-based uplink transmissions

> Table 7.2.3-0: PDSCH transmission scheme assumed for CSI reference
> resource

+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| Transmission | Transmission scheme of PDSCH                         |
|              |                                                      |
| mode         |                                                      |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 1            | > Single-antenna port, port 0                        |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 2            | Transmit diversity                                   |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 3            | Transmit diversity if the associated rank indicator  |
|              | is 1, otherwise large delay CDD                      |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 4            | Closed-loop spatial multiplexing                     |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 5            | Multi-user MIMO                                      |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 6            | Closed-loop spatial multiplexing with a single       |
|              | transmission layer                                   |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 7            | If the number of PBCH antenna ports is one,          |
|              | Single-antenna port, port 0; otherwise Transmit      |
|              | diversity                                            |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 8            | If the UE is configured without PMI/RI reporting: if |
|              | the number of PBCH antenna ports is one,             |
|              | single-antenna port, port 0; otherwise transmit      |
|              | diversity.                                           |
|              |                                                      |
|              | If the UE is configured with PMI/RI reporting:       |
|              | closed-loop spatial multiplexing.                    |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 9            | For activated serving cells, and a non-BL/CE UE, if  |
|              | the UE is configured without PMI/RI reporting: if    |
|              | the number of PBCH antenna ports is one,             |
|              | single-antenna port, port 0; otherwise transmit      |
|              | diversity.                                           |
|              |                                                      |
|              | For activated serving cells, and a non-BL/CE UE, if  |
|              | the UE is configured with PMI/RI reporting or        |
|              | without PMI reporting: if the number of CSI-RS ports |
|              | is one, single-antenna port, port 7; otherwise up to |
|              | 8 layer transmission, ports 7-14 (see Clause         |
|              | 7.1.5B).                                             |
|              |                                                      |
|              | For activated serving cells, and a BL/CE UE, if the  |
|              | UE is not configured with periodic CSI reporting     |
|              | mode 1-1: if the number of PBCH antenna ports is     |
|              | one, single-antenna port, port 0; otherwise transmit |
|              | diversity.                                           |
|              |                                                      |
|              | For activated serving cells, and a BL/CE UE, if the  |
|              | UE is configured with periodic CSI reporting mode    |
|              | 1-1: if the number of PBCH antenna ports is one,     |
|              | single-antenna port, port 0; otherwise closed-loop   |
|              | spatial multiplexing with a single transmission      |
|              | layer.                                               |
|              |                                                      |
|              | For dormant serving cells: if the number of PBCH     |
|              | antenna ports is one, single-antenna port, port 0;   |
|              | otherwise transmit diversity.                        |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| 10           | For activated serving cells, if a CSI process of the |
|              | UE is configured without PMI/RI reporting: if the    |
|              | number of CSI-RS ports is one, single-antenna port,  |
|              | port7; otherwise transmit diversity.                 |
|              |                                                      |
|              | For activated serving cells, and if a CSI process of |
|              | the UE is configured with PMI/RI reporting or        |
|              | without PMI reporting: if the number of CSI-RS ports |
|              | is one, single-antenna port, port 7; otherwise up to |
|              | 8 layer transmission, ports 7-14 (see Clause         |
|              | 7.1.5B).                                             |
|              |                                                      |
|              | For dormant serving cells: if the number of PBCH     |
|              | antenna ports is one, single-antenna port, port 0;   |
|              | otherwise transmit diversity.                        |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+

Table 7.2.3-1: 4-bit CQI Table

  ----------- -------------- ------------------ ------------
  CQI index   modulation     code rate x 1024   efficiency
  0           out of range                      
  1           QPSK           78                 0.1523
  2           QPSK           120                0.2344
  3           QPSK           193                0.3770
  4           QPSK           308                0.6016
  5           QPSK           449                0.8770
  6           QPSK           602                1.1758
  7           16QAM          378                1.4766
  8           16QAM          490                1.9141
  9           16QAM          616                2.4063
  10          64QAM          466                2.7305
  11          64QAM          567                3.3223
  12          64QAM          666                3.9023
  13          64QAM          772                4.5234
  14          64QAM          873                5.1152
  15          64QAM          948                5.5547
  ----------- -------------- ------------------ ------------

Table 7.2.3-2: 4-bit CQI Table 2

  --------------- ---------------- ---------------------- ----------------
  **CQI index**   **modulation**   **code rate x 1024**   **efficiency**
  0               out of range                            
  1               QPSK             78                     0.1523
  2               QPSK             193                    0.3770
  3               QPSK             449                    0.8770
  4               16QAM            378                    1.4766
  5               16QAM            490                    1.9141
  6               16QAM            616                    2.4063
  7               64QAM            466                    2.7305
  8               64QAM            567                    3.3223
  9               64QAM            666                    3.9023
  10              64QAM            772                    4.5234
  11              64QAM            873                    5.1152
  12              256QAM           711                    5.5547
  13              256QAM           797                    6.2266
  14              256QAM           885                    6.9141
  15              256QAM           948                    7.4063
  --------------- ---------------- ---------------------- ----------------

Table 7.2.3-3: 4-bit CQI Table 3

  --------------- ---------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------
  **CQI index**   **modulation**   **code rate x 1024 x** ![](media/image606.wmf)   **efficiency x** ![](media/image606.wmf)
  0               out of range                                                      
  1               QPSK             40                                               0.0781
  2               QPSK             78                                               0.1523
  3               QPSK             120                                              0.2344
  4               QPSK             193                                              0.3770
  5               QPSK             308                                              0.6016
  6               QPSK             449                                              0.8770
  7               QPSK             602                                              1.1758
  8               16QAM            378                                              1.4766
  9               16QAM            490                                              1.9141
  10              16QAM            616                                              2.4063
  11              Reserved         Reserved                                         Reserved
  12              Reserved         Reserved                                         Reserved
  13              Reserved         Reserved                                         Reserved
  14              Reserved         Reserved                                         Reserved
  15              Reserved         Reserved                                         Reserved
  --------------- ---------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------

Table 7.2.3-4: 4-bit CQI Table 4

  --------------- ---------------- ---------------------- ----------------
  **CQI index**   **modulation**   **code rate x 1024**   **Efficiency**
  0               out of range                            
  1               QPSK             78                     0.1523
  2               QPSK             193                    0.3770
  3               QPSK             449                    0.8770
  4               16QAM            378                    1.4766
  5               16QAM            616                    2.4063
  6               64QAM            567                    3.3223
  7               64QAM            666                    3.9023
  8               64QAM            772                    4.5234
  9               64QAM            873                    5.1152
  10              256QAM           711                    5.5547
  11              256QAM           797                    6.2266
  12              256QAM           885                    6.9141
  13              256QAM           948                    7.4063
  14              1024QAM          853                    8.3301
  15              1024QAM          948                    9.2578
  --------------- ---------------- ---------------------- ----------------

Table 7.2.3-5: 4-bit CQI Table 5

  --------------- ---------------- ---------------------- ----------------
  **CQI index**   **modulation**   **code rate x 1024**   **efficiency**
  0               out of range                            
  1               QPSK             40                     0.0781
  2               QPSK             78                     0.1523
  3               QPSK             120                    0.2344
  4               QPSK             193                    0.3770
  5               QPSK             308                    0.6016
  6               QPSK             449                    0.8770
  7               QPSK             602                    1.1758
  8               16QAM            378                    1.4766
  9               16QAM            490                    1.9141
  10              16QAM            616                    2.4063
  11              64QAM            466                    2.7305
  12              64QAM            567                    3.3223
  13              64QAM            666                    3.9023
  14              64QAM            772                    4.5234
  15              64QAM            873                    5.1152
  --------------- ---------------- ---------------------- ----------------

Table 7.2.3-6: 4-bit CQI Table 6

  --------------- ---------------- ---------------------- ----------------
  **CQI index**   **modulation**   **code rate x 1024**   **repetition**
  0               out of range                            
  1               QPSK             56                     32
  2               QPSK             207                    16
  3               QPSK             266                    4
  4               QPSK             195                    2
  5               QPSK             142                    1
  6               QPSK             266                    1
  7               QPSK             453                    1
  8               QPSK             637                    1
  9               16QAM            423                    1
  10              16QAM            557                    1
  11              16QAM            696                    1
  12              16QAM            845                    1
  13              64QAM            651                    1
  14              64QAM            780                    1
  15              64QAM            888                    1
  --------------- ---------------- ---------------------- ----------------

###  7.2.4 Precoding Matrix Indicator (PMI) definition

For transmission modes 4, 5 and 6, precoding feedback is used for
channel dependent codebook based precoding and relies on UEs reporting
precoding matrix indicator (PMI). For transmission mode 8, the UE shall
report PMI if configured with PMI/RI reporting. For transmission modes 9
and 10, the non-BL/CE UE shall report PMI if configured with PMI/RI
reporting and the number of CSI-RS ports is larger than 1. For
transmission modes 9, the BL/CE UE shall report PMI based on CSI-RS if
configured with the higher layer parameter *ce-CSI-RS-Feedback* and the
number of CSI-RS ports=8, otherwise based on CRS. A UE shall report PMI
based on the feedback modes described in 7.2.1 and 7.2.2. For other
transmission modes, PMI reporting is not supported.

For 2 antenna ports, except with,

-   UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
    > *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource
    > configured, and higher layer parameter
    > *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*, or

-   UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
    > *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource
    > configured, and higher layer parameter
    > *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*,

each PMI value corresponds to a codebook index given in Table
6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\] as follows:

\- For 2 antenna ports ![](media/image650.wmf) or {15,16} and an
associated RI value of 1, a PMI value of ![](media/image651.wmf)
corresponds to the codebook index ![](media/image652.wmf) given in Table
6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\] with ![](media/image653.wmf).

\- For 2 antenna ports ![](media/image650.wmf) or {15,16} and an
associated RI value of 2, a PMI value of ![](media/image654.wmf)
corresponds to the codebook index ![](media/image655.wmf)given in Table
6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\] with ![](media/image656.wmf).

\- For 2 antenna ports {15,16}, UE shall only use the precoding matrix
corresponding to codebook index 0 in Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\] with
![](media/image657.wmf) and shall not report a PMI value if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop=TRUE*.

For 4 antenna ports ![](media/image658.wmf) or {15,16,17,18}, except
with,

-   UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
    *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource
    configured, and higher layer parameter
    *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured, or

-   UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
    *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource
    configured, and higher layer parameter
    *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*, or

-   UE configured with higher layer parameter
    *advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and ![](media/image659.wmf) with
    ![](media/image660.wmf) equal to the associated RI value,

each PMI value corresponds to a codebook index given in Table
6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\] or a pair of codebook indices given in Table
7.2.4-0A, 7.2.4-0B, 7.2.4-0C, or 7.2.4-0D as follows:

\- A PMI value of ![](media/image661.wmf) corresponds to the codebook
index ![](media/image662.wmf) given in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\] with
![](media/image660.wmf) equal to the associated RI value except with
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured.

\- If higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop=TRUE* configured except with
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* configured, UE shall not
report a PMI value and shall use the precoding matrix for REs of *j*^th^
PRB-pair according to ![](media/image663.wmf), where
![](media/image664.wmf) is the precoder index given by
![](media/image665.wmf) and ![](media/image666.wmf)denote precoder
matrices corresponding to precoder indices 12,13,14 and 15,
respectively, in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of \[3\] with
![](media/image657.wmf).

\- If *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12=TRUE* is configured, each
PMI value corresponds to a pair of codebook indices given in Table
7.2.4-0A, 7.2.4-0B, 7.2.4-0C, or 7.2.4-0D, where the quantities
![](media/image667.wmf), ![](media/image668.wmf) and
![](media/image669.wmf) in Table 7.2.4-0A and Table 7.2.4-0B are given
by

> ![](media/image670.wmf)

\- A first PMI value of ![](media/image671.wmf) and a second PMI value
of ![](media/image672.wmf) correspond to the codebook indices
![](media/image673.wmf) and ![](media/image674.wmf) respectively given
in Table 7.2.4-0*j* with ![](media/image675.wmf) equal to the associated
RI value and where *j* ={A,B,C,D} respectively when
![](media/image676.wmf), ![](media/image677.wmf)
and![](media/image678.wmf).

\- The quantity ![](media/image679.wmf) in Table 7.2.4-0C and Table
7.2.4-0D denotes the matrix defined by the columns given by the set
![](media/image680.wmf) from the expression ![](media/image681.wmf)
where ![](media/image682.wmf) is the ![](media/image683.wmf) identity
matrix and the vector ![](media/image684.wmf) is given by Table
6.3.4.2.3-2 in \[3\] and ![](media/image685.wmf).

\- In some cases codebook subsampling is supported. The sub-sampled
codebook for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 2 is defined in Table 7.2.2-1G for
first and second precoding matrix indicators ![](media/image449.wmf) and
![](media/image562.wmf). Joint encoding of rank and first precoding
matrix indicator ![](media/image449.wmf) for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 1 is
defined in Table 7.2.2-1H. The sub-sampled codebook for PUCCH mode 2-1
is defined in Table 7.2.2-1I for PUCCH Reporting Type 1a.

\- UE shall only use the value of ![](media/image562.wmf) according to
the configured codebook subset restriction, where the UE is expected to
be configured with a single value of
![](media/image564.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} in {0,1,2,...,15} for 1 layer and in
{0,1,2...,7} for 2 layers, and shall not report ![](media/image562.wmf)
if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop=TRUE*.

Table 7.2.4-0A: Codebook for 1-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 0
to 3 or 15 to 18

  ![](media/image449.wmf)                                                          ![](media/image686.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   0                                                                                       1                                                           2                                                           3                                                                          4                                                                          5                                                                          6                                                                          7
  0 -- 15                                                                          ![](media/image687.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image688.wmf)                                     ![](media/image689.wmf)                                     ![](media/image690.wmf)                                                    ![](media/image691.wmf)                                                    ![](media/image692.wmf)                                                    ![](media/image693.wmf)                                                    ![](media/image694.wmf)
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                   **8**                                                                                   **9**                                                       **10**                                                      **11**                                                                     **12**                                                                     **13**                                                                     **14**                                                                     **15**
  0 - 15                                                                           ![](media/image696.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image697.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image698.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image699.wmf){width="0.5104166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image700.wmf){width="0.4791666666666667in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image701.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image702.wmf){width="0.5104166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image703.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}
  where ![](media/image704.wmf){width="1.21875in" height="0.5208333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

Table 7.2.4-0B: Codebook for 2-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 0
to 3 or 15 to 18

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                    
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                              0                                                                                       1                                                                          2                                                                                     3
  0 -- 15                                                                                     ![](media/image705.wmf){width="0.40625in" height="0.28125in"}                           ![](media/image706.wmf){width="0.3854166666666667in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image707.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}              ![](media/image708.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                              4                                                                                       5                                                                          6                                                                                     7
  0 -- 15                                                                                     ![](media/image709.wmf){width="0.6875in" height="0.28125in"}                            ![](media/image710.wmf){width="0.6875in" height="0.28125in"}               ![](media/image711.wmf){width="0.71875in" height="0.28125in"}                         ![](media/image712.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                              8                                                                                       9                                                                          10                                                                                    11
  0 -- 15                                                                                     ![](media/image713.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.28125in"}                               ![](media/image714.wmf){width="0.4895833333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image715.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.28125in"}                         ![](media/image716.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                              12                                                                                      13                                                                         14                                                                                    15
  0 -- 15                                                                                     ![](media/image717.wmf){width="0.5625in" height="0.28125in"}                            ![](media/image718.wmf){width="0.5416666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image719.wmf){width="0.6770833333333334in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image720.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.28125in"}
  where ![](media/image721.wmf){width="2.0416666666666665in" height="0.5208333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

Table 7.2.4-0C: Codebook for 3-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 18

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            0                                                                                       1                                                                                     2                                                                          3                                                                                     4                                                                                     5                                                                                     6                                                                                     7
  0                                                                         ![](media/image722.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}     ![](media/image723.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}              ![](media/image724.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image725.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}              ![](media/image726.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image727.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image728.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image729.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                            **8**                                                                                   **9**                                                                                 **10**                                                                     **11**                                                                                **12**                                                                                **13**                                                                                **14**                                                                                **15**
  0                                                                         ![](media/image730.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}     ![](media/image731.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image732.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image733.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image734.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}              ![](media/image735.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}              ![](media/image736.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}              ![](media/image737.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}

Table 7.2.4-0D: Codebook for 4-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 18

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            0                                                                                       1                                                                           2                                                                                      3                                                                                      4                                                                           5                                                                           6                                                                                      7
  0                                                                         ![](media/image738.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}               ![](media/image739.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image740.wmf){width="0.6145833333333334in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image741.wmf){width="0.6145833333333334in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image742.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image743.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image744.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}              ![](media/image745.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                            **8**                                                                                   **9**                                                                       **10**                                                                                 **11**                                                                                 **12**                                                                      **13**                                                                      **14**                                                                                 **15**
  0                                                                         ![](media/image746.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}               ![](media/image747.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image748.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}              ![](media/image749.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}              ![](media/image750.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image751.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image752.wmf){width="0.6145833333333334in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}   ![](media/image753.wmf){width="0.65625in" height="0.2708333333333333in"}

For a non-BL/CE UE, the UE is not expected to receive the configuration
of *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12* except for transmission mode 8
configured with 4 CRS ports, and transmission modes 9 and 10 configured
with 4 CSI-RS ports*.* For a UE configured in transmission mode 10, the
parameter *alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12* may be configured for
each CSI process.

For a BL/CE UE, the UE is not expected to receive the configuration of
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12*.

For 8 antenna ports, except with,

\- UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\', or

\- UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
configured, or

\- UE is configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and
*eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
configured, or

\- UE configured with higher layer parameter
*advancedCodebookEnabled*=*TRUE*, and ![](media/image754.wmf) with
![](media/image660.wmf) equal to the associated RI value,

each PMI value corresponds to a pair of codebook indices given in Table
7.2.4-1, 7.2.4-2, 7.2.4-3, 7.2.4-4, 7.2.4-5, 7.2.4-6, 7.2.4-7, or
7.2.4-8, where the quantities
![](media/image755.wmf){width="0.17708333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} and
![](media/image756.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} are given by

![](media/image757.wmf){width="2.2395833333333335in"
height="0.5104166666666666in"}

\- as follows:For 8 antenna
ports![](media/image758.wmf){width="1.5416666666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}, a first PMI value of
![](media/image759.wmf){width="1.3854166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} and a second PMI value of
![](media/image760.wmf){width="1.3854166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} corresponds to the codebook indices
![](media/image761.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}
and ![](media/image762.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} given in Table 7.2.4-*j* with
![](media/image763.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.13541666666666666in"}
equal to the associated RI value and where *j* =
![](media/image764.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.13541666666666666in"},
![](media/image765.wmf){width="1.4791666666666667in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} and
![](media/image766.wmf){width="1.4375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}.

\- In some cases codebook subsampling is supported. The sub-sampled
codebook for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 2 is defined in Table 7.2.2-1D for
first and second precoding matrix indicator
![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
and ![](media/image564.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}. Joint encoding of rank and first
precoding matrix indicator ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} for PUCCH mode 1-1 submode 1 is defined
in Table 7.2.2-1E. The sub-sampled codebook for PUCCH mode 2-1 is
defined in Table 7.2.2-1F for PUCCH Reporting Type 1a. For a BL/CE UE
configured with CEModeA and PUCCH mode 1-1 for 8 CSI-RS ports, the
entries in Table 7.2.2-1D and Table 7.2.2-1E corresponding to rank 1 are
used.

\- UE shall only use the value of ![](media/image562.wmf) according to
the configured codebook subset restriction, where the UE is expected to
be configured with a single value of
![](media/image564.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} in {0,1,2,...,15} for 1 layer and in
{0,1,2...,7} for 2 layers, and shall not report ![](media/image562.wmf)
if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop=TRUE.*

Table 7.2.4-1: Codebook for 1-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 15
to 22

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   0                                                                                       1                                                                          2                                                                          3                                                                          4                                                                          5                                                                          6                                                                          7
  0 -- 15                                                                          ![](media/image767.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"}                           ![](media/image768.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image769.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"}              ![](media/image770.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"}              ![](media/image771.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image772.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image773.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image774.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                   8                                                                                       9                                                                          10                                                                         11                                                                         12                                                                         13                                                                         14                                                                         15
  0 - 15                                                                           ![](media/image775.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image776.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image777.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image778.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image779.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image780.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image781.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image782.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.28125in"}
  where ![](media/image783.wmf){width="1.09375in" height="0.4583333333333333in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

Table 7.2.4-2: Codebook for 2-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 15
to 22

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                    
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   0                                                                                       1                                                                          2                                                                                     3
  0 -- 15                                                                          ![](media/image784.wmf){width="0.4895833333333333in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image785.wmf){width="0.46875in" height="0.28125in"}              ![](media/image786.wmf){width="0.6770833333333334in" height="0.28125in"}              ![](media/image787.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                   4                                                                                       5                                                                          6                                                                                     7
  0 -- 15                                                                          ![](media/image788.wmf){width="0.71875in" height="0.28125in"}                           ![](media/image789.wmf){width="0.6979166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image790.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}              ![](media/image791.wmf){width="0.6979166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                   8                                                                                       9                                                                          10                                                                                    11
  0 -- 15                                                                          ![](media/image792.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image793.wmf){width="0.5729166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image794.wmf){width="0.6979166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}              ![](media/image795.wmf){width="0.6770833333333334in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                   12                                                                                      13                                                                         14                                                                                    15
  0 -- 15                                                                          ![](media/image796.wmf){width="0.59375in" height="0.28125in"}                           ![](media/image797.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image798.wmf){width="0.6979166666666666in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}   ![](media/image799.wmf){width="0.6770833333333334in" height="0.28125in"}
  where ![](media/image800.wmf){width="1.65625in" height="0.4583333333333333in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

Table 7.2.4-3: Codebook for 3-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 15
to 22

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                    ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                         
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                             0                                                                                       1                                                                          2                                                                          3
  0 - 3                                                                                      ![](media/image801.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image802.wmf){width="0.7604166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image803.wmf){width="0.7604166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image804.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                    ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                             4                                                                                       5                                                                          6                                                                          7
  0 - 3                                                                                      ![](media/image805.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image806.wmf){width="0.9583333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image807.wmf){width="0.9583333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image808.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                    ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                             8                                                                                       9                                                                          10                                                                         11
  0 - 3                                                                                      ![](media/image809.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image810.wmf){width="0.9583333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image811.wmf){width="0.9583333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image812.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                    ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                             12                                                                                      13                                                                         14                                                                         15
  0 - 3                                                                                      ![](media/image813.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image814.wmf){width="0.9375in" height="0.28125in"}               ![](media/image815.wmf){width="0.9375in" height="0.28125in"}               ![](media/image816.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.28125in"}
  where ![](media/image817.wmf){width="4.083333333333333in" height="0.4583333333333333in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

Table 7.2.4-4: Codebook for 4-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 15
to 22

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                         
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                              0                                                                                       1                                                                          2                                                                          3
  0 - 3                                                                                       ![](media/image818.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image819.wmf){width="0.5729166666666666in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image820.wmf){width="0.7395833333333334in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image821.wmf){width="0.71875in" height="0.28125in"}
  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                              4                                                                                       5                                                                          6                                                                          7
  0 - 3                                                                                       ![](media/image822.wmf){width="0.7395833333333334in" height="0.28125in"}                ![](media/image823.wmf){width="0.71875in" height="0.28125in"}              ![](media/image824.wmf){width="0.7395833333333334in" height="0.28125in"}   ![](media/image825.wmf){width="0.71875in" height="0.28125in"}
  where ![](media/image826.wmf){width="2.7916666666666665in" height="0.4583333333333333in"}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

Table 7.2.4-5: Codebook for 5-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 15
to 22.

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            0
  0 - 3                                                                     ![](media/image827.wmf){width="2.9166666666666665in" height="0.4583333333333333in"}

Table 7.2.4-6: Codebook for 6-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 15
to 22.

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            0
  0 - 3                                                                     ![](media/image828.wmf){width="3.5in" height="0.4583333333333333in"}

Table 7.2.4-7: Codebook for 7-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 15
to 22.

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            0
  0 - 3                                                                     ![](media/image829.wmf){width="3.9895833333333335in" height="0.4583333333333333in"}

Table 7.2.4-8: Codebook for 8-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports 15
to 22.

  ![](media/image563.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            0
  0                                                                         ![](media/image830.wmf){width="4.375in" height="0.4583333333333333in"}

For 8 antenna ports![](media/image831.wmf), 12 antenna
ports![](media/image832.wmf), 16 antenna ports![](media/image833.wmf),
20 antenna ports![](media/image834.wmf), 24 antenna
ports![](media/image835.wmf), 28 antenna ports![](media/image836.wmf),
32 antenna ports![](media/image837.wmf), and UE configured with higher
layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\',
except with UE configured with higher layer parameter
*advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and ![](media/image754.wmf) with
![](media/image660.wmf) equal to the associated RI value, each PMI value
corresponds to three codebook indices given in Table 7.2.4-10, 7.2.4-11,
7.2.4-12, 7.2.4-13, 7.2.4-14, 7.2.4-15, 7.2.4-16, or 7.2.4-17, where the
quantities ![](media/image755.wmf){width="0.17708333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, ![](media/image838.wmf)and
![](media/image839.wmf) are given by

![](media/image840.wmf)

\- The values of ![](media/image841.wmf), ![](media/image842.wmf),
![](media/image843.wmf), and ![](media/image844.wmf) are configured with
the higher-layer parameter *codebookConfig-N1*, *codebookConfig-N2*,
*codebook-Over-Sampling-RateConfig-O1*, and
*codebook-Over-Sampling-RateConfig-O2*, respectively. The supported
configurations of ![](media/image845.wmf)and ![](media/image846.wmf) for
a given number of CSI-RS ports are given in Table 7.2.4-9. The number of
CSI-RS ports, *P*, is ![](media/image847.wmf).

\- UE is not expected to be configured with value of *codebookConfig*
set to 2 or 3, if the value of codebookConfigN2 is set to 1.

\- UE shall only use ![](media/image848.wmf)and shall not report
![](media/image849.wmf)if the value of *codebookConfig-N2* is set to 1.

\- A first PMI value ![](media/image850.wmf) corresponds to the codebook
indices pair ![](media/image851.wmf), and a second PMI value
![](media/image852.wmf)corresponds to the codebook index
![](media/image853.wmf)given in Table 7.2.4-*j* with
![](media/image763.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.13541666666666666in"}
equal to the associated RI value and where *j* =
![](media/image854.wmf).

\- In some cases codebook subsampling is supported. The sub-sampled
codebook for PUCCH mode 2-1 for value of parameter *codebookConfig* set
to 2, 3, or 4 is defined in Table 7.2.2-1F for PUCCH Reporting Type 1a.

\- UE shall only use the value of ![](media/image855.wmf) according to
the configured codebook subset restriction, where the UE is expected to
be configured with a single value of
![](media/image564.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} in {0,1,2,...,15} for 1 layer and in
{0,1,2...,7} for 2 layers, and shall not report
![](media/image856.wmf)if the UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *semiOpenLoop*=*TRUE*

Table 7.2.4-9: Supported configurations of ![](media/image845.wmf)and
![](media/image846.wmf)

  --------------------------- ------------------------- -------------------------
  Number of\                  ![](media/image846.wmf)   ![](media/image845.wmf)
  CSI-RS antenna ports, *P*                             

                                                        

  8                           (2,2)                     (4,4), (8,8)

  12                          (2,3)                     (8,4), (8,8)

                              (3,2)                     (8,4), (4,4)

  16                          (2,4)                     (8,4), (8,8)

                              (4,2)                     (8,4), (4,4)

                              (8,1)                     (4,-), (8,-)

  20                          (2,5)                     (8,4)

                              (5,2)                     (4,4)

                              (10,1)                    (4,-)

  24                          (2,6)                     (8,4)

                              (3,4)                     (8,4)

                              (4,3)                     (4,4)

                              (6,2)                     (4,4)

                              (12,1)                    (4,-)

  28                          (2,7)                     (8,4)

                              (7,2)                     (4,4)

                              (14,1)                    (4,-)

  32                          (2,8)                     (8,4)

                              (4,4)                     (8,4)

                              (8,2)                     (4,4)

                              (16,1)                    (4,-)
  --------------------------- ------------------------- -------------------------

Table 7.2.4-10: Codebook for 1-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 14+*P*

  Value of *Codebook-Config*      ![](media/image857.wmf)   ![](media/image858.wmf)   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
  ------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- -------------------------
                                                                                      0                                                                                       1                         2                         3
  1                               ![](media/image859.wmf)   ![](media/image860.wmf)   ![](media/image861.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image862.wmf)   ![](media/image863.wmf)   ![](media/image864.wmf)
  where ![](media/image865.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  Value of *Codebook-Config*      ![](media/image857.wmf)   ![](media/image858.wmf)   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
  ------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- -------------------------
                                                                                      0                                                                                       1                         2                         3
  2                               ![](media/image866.wmf)   ![](media/image867.wmf)   ![](media/image868.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image869.wmf)   ![](media/image870.wmf)   ![](media/image871.wmf)
  Value of *Codebook-Config*      ![](media/image857.wmf)   ![](media/image858.wmf)   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
                                                                                      4                                                                                       5                         6                         7
  2                               ![](media/image866.wmf)   ![](media/image867.wmf)   ![](media/image872.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image873.wmf)   ![](media/image874.wmf)   ![](media/image875.wmf)
  Value of *Codebook-Config*      ![](media/image857.wmf)   ![](media/image858.wmf)   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
                                                                                      8                                                                                       9                         10                        11
  2                               ![](media/image866.wmf)   ![](media/image867.wmf)   ![](media/image876.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image877.wmf)   ![](media/image878.wmf)   ![](media/image879.wmf)
  Value of Codebook-Config        ![](media/image857.wmf)   ![](media/image858.wmf)   ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
                                                                                      12                                                                                      13                        14                        15
  2                               ![](media/image866.wmf)   ![](media/image867.wmf)   ![](media/image880.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image881.wmf)   ![](media/image882.wmf)   ![](media/image883.wmf)
  where ![](media/image865.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                                   

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Value   | ![      | ![      | ![](    |         |         |         |
| of      | ](media | ](media | media/i |         |         |         |
| *Co     | /image8 | /image8 | mage695 |         |         |         |
| debook- | 57.wmf) | 58.wmf) | .wmf){w |         |         |         |
| Config* |         |         | idth="0 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .135416 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666666 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666in" |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hei     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ght="0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2083333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 3333333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 334in"} |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         |         |         | 0       | 1       | 2       | 3       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 3       | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      |
|         | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media |
|         | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 |
|         | 66.wmf) | 67.wmf) | 84.wmf) | 85.wmf) | 86.wmf) | 87.wmf) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Value   | ![      | ![      | ![](    |         |         |         |
| of      | ](media | ](media | media/i |         |         |         |
| *Co     | /image8 | /image8 | mage695 |         |         |         |
| debook- | 57.wmf) | 58.wmf) | .wmf){w |         |         |         |
| Config* |         |         | idth="0 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .135416 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666666 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666in" |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hei     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ght="0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2083333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 3333333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 334in"} |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | 4       | 5       | 6       | 7       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 3       | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      |
|         | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media |
|         | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 |
|         | 66.wmf) | 67.wmf) | 88.wmf) | 89.wmf) | 90.wmf) | 91.wmf) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Value   | ![      | ![      | ![](    |         |         |         |
| of      | ](media | ](media | media/i |         |         |         |
| *Co     | /image8 | /image8 | mage695 |         |         |         |
| debook- | 57.wmf) | 58.wmf) | .wmf){w |         |         |         |
| Config* |         |         | idth="0 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .135416 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666666 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666in" |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hei     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ght="0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2083333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 3333333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 334in"} |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | 8       | 9       | 10      | 11      |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 3       | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      |
|         | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media |
|         | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 |
|         | 66.wmf) | 67.wmf) | 92.wmf) | 93.wmf) | 94.wmf) | 95.wmf) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Value   | ![      | ![      | ![](    |         |         |         |
| of      | ](media | ](media | media/i |         |         |         |
| *Co     | /image8 | /image8 | mage695 |         |         |         |
| debook- | 57.wmf) | 58.wmf) | .wmf){w |         |         |         |
| Config* |         |         | idth="0 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .135416 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666666 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666in" |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hei     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ght="0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2083333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 3333333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 334in"} |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | 12      | 13      | 14      | 15      |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 3       | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      |
|         | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media |
|         | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 |
|         | 66.wmf) | 67.wmf) | 96.wmf) | 97.wmf) | 98.wmf) | 99.wmf) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![]     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (media/ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| image90 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.wmf), |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ](media |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| /image9 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 01.wmf) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![]     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (media/ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| image90 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2.wmf), |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ](media |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| /image9 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 03.wmf) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Value   | ![      | ![      | ![](    |         |         |         |
| of      | ](media | ](media | media/i |         |         |         |
| *Co     | /image8 | /image8 | mage695 |         |         |         |
| debook- | 57.wmf) | 58.wmf) | .wmf){w |         |         |         |
| Config* |         |         | idth="0 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .135416 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666666 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666in" |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hei     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ght="0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2083333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 3333333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 334in"} |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         |         |         | 0       | 1       | 2       | 3       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 4       | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      |
|         | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media |
|         | /image8 | /image8 | /image9 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 |
|         | 66.wmf) | 67.wmf) | 04.wmf) | 85.wmf) | 86.wmf) | 87.wmf) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Value   | ![      | ![      | ![](    |         |         |         |
| of      | ](media | ](media | media/i |         |         |         |
| *Co     | /image8 | /image8 | mage695 |         |         |         |
| debook- | 57.wmf) | 58.wmf) | .wmf){w |         |         |         |
| Config* |         |         | idth="0 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .135416 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666666 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666in" |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hei     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ght="0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2083333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 3333333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 334in"} |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | 4       | 5       | 6       | 7       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 4       | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      |
|         | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media |
|         | /image8 | /image8 | /image9 | /image9 | /image9 | /image9 |
|         | 66.wmf) | 67.wmf) | 05.wmf) | 06.wmf) | 07.wmf) | 08.wmf) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Value   | ![      | ![      | ![](    |         |         |         |
| of      | ](media | ](media | media/i |         |         |         |
| *Co     | /image8 | /image8 | mage695 |         |         |         |
| debook- | 57.wmf) | 58.wmf) | .wmf){w |         |         |         |
| Config* |         |         | idth="0 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .135416 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666666 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666in" |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hei     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ght="0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2083333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 3333333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 334in"} |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | 8       | 9       | 10      | 11      |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 4       | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      |
|         | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media |
|         | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 | /image8 |
|         | 66.wmf) | 67.wmf) | 88.wmf) | 89.wmf) | 90.wmf) | 91.wmf) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Value   | ![      | ![      | ![](    |         |         |         |
| of      | ](media | ](media | media/i |         |         |         |
| C       | /image8 | /image8 | mage695 |         |         |         |
| odebook | 57.wmf) | 58.wmf) | .wmf){w |         |         |         |
| -Config |         |         | idth="0 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .135416 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666666 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6666in" |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hei     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ght="0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2083333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 3333333 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 334in"} |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | 12      | 13      | 14      | 15      |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 4       | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      | ![      |
|         | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media | ](media |
|         | /image8 | /image8 | /image9 | /image9 | /image9 | /image9 |
|         | 66.wmf) | 67.wmf) | 09.wmf) | 10.wmf) | 11.wmf) | 12.wmf) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![]     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (media/ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| image90 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.wmf), |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ](media |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| /image9 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 01.wmf) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![]     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (media/ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| image90 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2.wmf), |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ![      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ](media |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| /image9 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 03.wmf) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table 7.2.4-11: Codebook for 2-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 14+*P*

  *2 Layers, Codebook-Config =* 1                                                                                                                                               
  --------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- -------------------------
  ![](media/image913.wmf)                                                                                                                                                       
  ![](media/image914.wmf)           ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
                                    0                                                                                       1                         2                         3
  ![](media/image916.wmf)           ![](media/image917.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image918.wmf)   ![](media/image919.wmf)   ![](media/image920.wmf)
  where ![](media/image921.wmf).                                                                                                                                                

  *2 Layers, Codebook-Config =* 2                                                                                                                                               
  --------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- --------------------------
  If ![](media/image922.wmf)                                                                                                                                                    
  ![](media/image923.wmf)                                                                                                                                                       
  ![](media/image924.wmf)           ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
                                    0                                                                                       1                         2                         3
  ![](media/image925.wmf)           ![](media/image926.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image927.wmf)   ![](media/image928.wmf)   ![](media/image929.wmf)
  ![](media/image924.wmf)           ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
                                    4                                                                                       5                         6                         7
  ![](media/image925.wmf)           ![](media/image930.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image931.wmf)   ![](media/image932.wmf)   ![](media/image933.wmf)
  ![](media/image924.wmf)           ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
                                    8                                                                                       9                         10                        11
  ![](media/image925.wmf)           ![](media/image934.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image935.wmf)   ![](media/image936.wmf)   ![](media/image937.wmf)
  ![](media/image924.wmf)           ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                       
                                    12                                                                                      13                        14                        15
  ![](media/image925.wmf)           ![](media/image938.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image939.wmf)   ![](media/image940.wmf)   ![](media/image941.wmf).
  where ![](media/image942.wmf).                                                                                                                                                

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *2 Layers,  |             |             |             |             |
| Code        |             |             |             |             |
| book-Config |             |             |             |             |
| =* 3        |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| !           |             |             |             |             |
| [](media/im |             |             |             |             |
| age923.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | ![](media   |             |             |             |
| [](media/im | /image915.w |             |             |             |
| age943.wmf) | mf){width=" |             |             |             |
|             | 0.135416666 |             |             |             |
|             | 66666666in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 0           | 1           | 2           | 3           |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | !           | !           | !           | !           |
| [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im |
| age925.wmf) | age944.wmf) | age945.wmf) | age946.wmf) | age947.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | ![](media   |             |             |             |
| [](media/im | /image915.w |             |             |             |
| age948.wmf) | mf){width=" |             |             |             |
|             | 0.135416666 |             |             |             |
|             | 66666666in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 4           | 5           | 6           | 7           |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | !           | !           | !           | !           |
| [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im |
| age949.wmf) | age950.wmf) | age951.wmf) | age952.wmf) | age953.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | ![](media   |             |             |             |
| [](media/im | /image915.w |             |             |             |
| age954.wmf) | mf){width=" |             |             |             |
|             | 0.135416666 |             |             |             |
|             | 66666666in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 8           | 9           | 10          | 11          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | !           | !           | !           | !           |
| [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im |
| age955.wmf) | age956.wmf) | age957.wmf) | age958.wmf) | age959.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | ![](media   |             |             |             |
| [](media/im | /image915.w |             |             |             |
| age960.wmf) | mf){width=" |             |             |             |
|             | 0.135416666 |             |             |             |
|             | 66666666in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 12          | 13          | 14          | 15          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | !           | !           | !           | !           |
| [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im |
| age961.wmf) | age962.wmf) | age963.wmf) | age964.wmf) | age965.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
| !           |             |             |             |             |
| [](media/im |             |             |             |             |
| age966.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
| if          |             |             |             |             |
| !           |             |             |             |             |
| [](media/im |             |             |             |             |
| age967.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
| and         |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge968.wmf), |             |             |             |             |
| if          |             |             |             |             |
| !           |             |             |             |             |
| [](media/im |             |             |             |             |
| age903.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *2 Layers,  |             |             |             |             |
| Code        |             |             |             |             |
| book-Config |             |             |             |             |
| =* 4        |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| !           |             |             |             |             |
| [](media/im |             |             |             |             |
| age923.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | ![](media   |             |             |             |
| [](media/im | /image915.w |             |             |             |
| age943.wmf) | mf){width=" |             |             |             |
|             | 0.135416666 |             |             |             |
|             | 66666666in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 0           | 1           | 2           | 3           |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | !           | !           | !           | !           |
| [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im |
| age969.wmf) | age970.wmf) | age971.wmf) | age972.wmf) | age973.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | ![](media   |             |             |             |
| [](media/im | /image915.w |             |             |             |
| age943.wmf) | mf){width=" |             |             |             |
|             | 0.135416666 |             |             |             |
|             | 66666666in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 4           | 5           | 6           | 7           |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | !           | !           | !           | !           |
| [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im |
| age969.wmf) | age974.wmf) | age975.wmf) | age976.wmf) | age977.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | ![](media   |             |             |             |
| [](media/im | /image915.w |             |             |             |
| age943.wmf) | mf){width=" |             |             |             |
|             | 0.135416666 |             |             |             |
|             | 66666666in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 8           | 9           | 10          | 11          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | !           | !           | !           | !           |
| [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im |
| age969.wmf) | age978.wmf) | age979.wmf) | age980.wmf) | age981.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | ![](media   |             |             |             |
| [](media/im | /image915.w |             |             |             |
| age943.wmf) | mf){width=" |             |             |             |
|             | 0.135416666 |             |             |             |
|             | 66666666in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 12          | 13          | 14          | 15          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| !           | !           | !           | !           | !           |
| [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im | [](media/im |
| age969.wmf) | age982.wmf) | age983.wmf) | age984.wmf) | age985.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
| !           |             |             |             |             |
| [](media/im |             |             |             |             |
| age966.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
| if          |             |             |             |             |
| !           |             |             |             |             |
| [](media/im |             |             |             |             |
| age967.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
| and         |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge968.wmf), |             |             |             |             |
| if          |             |             |             |             |
| !           |             |             |             |             |
| [](media/im |             |             |             |             |
| age903.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 7.2.4-12: Codebook for 3-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 14+*P*

  *3 Layers, Codebook-Config =* 1, ![](media/image986.wmf)                                                                                           
  ---------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------
  ![](media/image987.wmf)                                                                                                                            
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                    ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   
                                                             0                                                                                       1
  ![](media/image989.wmf)                                    ![](media/image990.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image991.wmf)
  ![](media/image992.wmf)                                    ![](media/image993.wmf)                                                                 ![](media/image994.wmf)
  where ![](media/image995.wmf) , ![](media/image996.wmf)                                                                                            

  *3 Layers, Codebook-Config =* 1, ![](media/image997.wmf)                                                                                           
  ---------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image998.wmf)                                                                                                                            
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                    ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   
                                                             0                                                                                       1
  ![](media/image999.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1000.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1001.wmf)
  ![](media/image992.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1002.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1003.wmf)
  ![](media/image1004.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1005.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1006.wmf)
  where ![](media/image995.wmf) , ![](media/image996.wmf)                                                                                            

  *3 Layers, Codebook-Config =* 2                                                                                                                                                                           
  ----------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image1007.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                  
  ![](media/image857.wmf)                                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              0                                                                                       1                          2                          3
  ![](media/image1008.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1009.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1010.wmf)   ![](media/image1011.wmf)   ![](media/image1012.wmf)
  ![](media/image1013.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1014.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1015.wmf)   ![](media/image1016.wmf)   ![](media/image1017.wmf)
  ![](media/image857.wmf)                                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              4                                                                                       5                          6                          7
  ![](media/image1008.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1018.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1019.wmf)   ![](media/image1020.wmf)   ![](media/image1021.wmf)
  ![](media/image1022.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1023.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1024.wmf)   ![](media/image1025.wmf)   ![](media/image1026.wmf)
  ![](media/image857.wmf)                                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              8                                                                                       9                          10                         11
  ![](media/image1027.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1028.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1029.wmf)   ![](media/image1030.wmf)   ![](media/image1031.wmf)
  ![](media/image1032.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1033.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1034.wmf)   ![](media/image1035.wmf)   ![](media/image1036.wmf)
  ![](media/image857.wmf)                                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              12                                                                                      13                         14                         15
  ![](media/image1037.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1038.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1039.wmf)   ![](media/image1040.wmf)   ![](media/image1041.wmf)
  ![](media/image1042.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1043.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1044.wmf)   ![](media/image1045.wmf)   ![](media/image1046.wmf)
  where ![](media/image1047.wmf) , ![](media/image1048.wmf)                                                                                                                                                 

  *3 Layers, Codebook-Config =*3                                                                                                                                                                            
  ----------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image1007.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                  
  ![](media/image857.wmf)                                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              0                                                                                       1                          2                          3
  ![](media/image1049.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1050.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1051.wmf)   ![](media/image1052.wmf)   ![](media/image1053.wmf)
  ![](media/image1054.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1055.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1056.wmf)   ![](media/image1057.wmf)   ![](media/image1058.wmf)
  ![](media/image857.wmf)                                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              4                                                                                       5                          6                          7
  ![](media/image1059.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1060.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1061.wmf)   ![](media/image1062.wmf)   ![](media/image1063.wmf)
  ![](media/image1064.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1065.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1066.wmf)   ![](media/image1067.wmf)   ![](media/image1068.wmf)
  ![](media/image857.wmf)                                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              8                                                                                       9                          10                         11
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1070.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1071.wmf)   ![](media/image1072.wmf)   ![](media/image1073.wmf)
  ![](media/image1074.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1075.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1076.wmf)   ![](media/image1077.wmf)   ![](media/image1078.wmf)
  ![](media/image857.wmf)                                     ![](media/image695.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              12                                                                                      13                         14                         15
  ![](media/image1079.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1080.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1081.wmf)   ![](media/image1082.wmf)   ![](media/image1083.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1085.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1086.wmf)   ![](media/image1087.wmf)   ![](media/image1088.wmf)
  where ![](media/image1089.wmf) , ![](media/image1090.wmf)                                                                                                                                                 

  *3 Layers, Codebook-Config =*4, ![](media/image986.wmf)                                                                                                                                                   
  ----------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image1091.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                  
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                     ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              0                                                                                       1                          2                          3
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1092.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1093.wmf)   ![](media/image1094.wmf)   ![](media/image1095.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1096.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1097.wmf)   ![](media/image1098.wmf)   ![](media/image1099.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                     ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              4                                                                                       5                          6                          7
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1100.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1101.wmf)   ![](media/image1102.wmf)   ![](media/image1103.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1104.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1105.wmf)   ![](media/image1106.wmf)   ![](media/image1107.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                     ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              8                                                                                       9                          10                         11
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1108.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1109.wmf)   ![](media/image1110.wmf)   ![](media/image1111.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1112.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1113.wmf)   ![](media/image1114.wmf)   ![](media/image1115.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                     ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              12                                                                                      13                         14                         15
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1116.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1117.wmf)   ![](media/image1118.wmf)   ![](media/image1119.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1120.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1121.wmf)   ![](media/image1122.wmf)   ![](media/image1123.wmf)
  where ![](media/image1089.wmf) , ![](media/image1090.wmf)                                                                                                                                                 

  *3 Layers, Codebook-Config =*4, ![](media/image1124.wmf)                                                                                                                                                  
  ----------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image1125.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                  
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                     ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              0                                                                                       1                          2                          3
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1126.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1127.wmf)   ![](media/image1128.wmf)   ![](media/image1129.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1130.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1131.wmf)   ![](media/image1132.wmf)   ![](media/image1133.wmf)
  ![](media/image1134.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1135.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1136.wmf)   ![](media/image1137.wmf)   ![](media/image1138.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                     ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              4                                                                                       5                          6                          7
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1139.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1140.wmf)   ![](media/image1141.wmf)   ![](media/image1142.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1143.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1144.wmf)   ![](media/image1145.wmf)   ![](media/image1146.wmf)
  ![](media/image1134.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1147.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1148.wmf)   ![](media/image1149.wmf)   ![](media/image1150.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                     ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              8                                                                                       9                          10                         11
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1151.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1152.wmf)   ![](media/image1153.wmf)   ![](media/image1154.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1155.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1156.wmf)   ![](media/image1157.wmf)   ![](media/image1158.wmf)
  ![](media/image1134.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1159.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1160.wmf)   ![](media/image1161.wmf)   ![](media/image1162.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                     ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                              12                                                                                      13                         14                         15
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1163.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1164.wmf)   ![](media/image1165.wmf)   ![](media/image1166.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1167.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1168.wmf)   ![](media/image1169.wmf)   ![](media/image1170.wmf)
  ![](media/image1134.wmf)                                    ![](media/image1171.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1172.wmf)   ![](media/image1173.wmf)   ![](media/image1174.wmf)
  where ![](media/image1089.wmf) , ![](media/image1090.wmf)                                                                                                                                                 

Table 7.2.4-13: Codebook for 4-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 14+*P*

  ***4 Layers, Codebook-Config =* 1,** ![](media/image1175.wmf){width="0.8020833333333334in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                           
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ![](media/image1176.wmf){width="1.1770833333333333in" height="0.21875in"}                                                                                                                                            
  ![](media/image1177.wmf){width="0.17708333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}                                                   ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   
                                                                                                                               **0**                                                                                   **1**
  ![](media/image1178.wmf){width="0.7916666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                        ![](media/image1179.wmf){width="0.9270833333333334in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}    ![](media/image1180.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
  ![](media/image1181.wmf){width="1.0729166666666667in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                        ![](media/image1182.wmf){width="0.9375in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}                ![](media/image1183.wmf){width="0.9270833333333334in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
  where ![](media/image1184.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                       

  ***4 Layers**,* ***Codebook-Config =* 1,** ![](media/image1185.wmf){width="0.40625in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                           
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ![](media/image1186.wmf){width="0.40625in" height="0.21875in"}                                                                                                                                                  
  ![](media/image1177.wmf){width="0.17708333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}                                              ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   
                                                                                                                          0                                                                                       1
  ![](media/image1187.wmf){width="0.7916666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                   ![](media/image1188.wmf){width="0.7916666666666666in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}    ![](media/image1189.wmf){width="0.7708333333333334in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
  ![](media/image1181.wmf){width="1.0729166666666667in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                   ![](media/image1190.wmf){width="0.84375in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}               ![](media/image1191.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
  ![](media/image1192.wmf){width="1.1354166666666667in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                   ![](media/image1193.wmf){width="0.84375in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}               ![](media/image1194.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
  ![](media/image1195.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                        

  *4 Layers, Codebook-Config =* 2                                                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image1007.wmf)                                                                                                                                                        
  ![](media/image988.wmf)           ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                    0                                                                                       1                          2                          3
  ![](media/image1196.wmf)          ![](media/image1197.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1198.wmf)   ![](media/image1199.wmf)   ![](media/image1200.wmf)
  ![](media/image1201.wmf)          ![](media/image1202.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1203.wmf)   ![](media/image1204.wmf)   ![](media/image1205.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)           ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                    4                                                                                       5                          6                          7
  ![](media/image1196.wmf)          ![](media/image1206.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1207.wmf)   ![](media/image1208.wmf)   ![](media/image1209.wmf)
  ![](media/image1210.wmf)          ![](media/image1211.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1212.wmf)   ![](media/image1213.wmf)   ![](media/image1214.wmf)
  ![](media/image1215.wmf)                                                                                                                                                        

  *4 Layers, Codebook-Config =*3                                                                                                                                                 
  -------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image1007.wmf)                                                                                                                                                       
  ![](media/image988.wmf)          ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                   0                                                                                       1                          2                          3
  ![](media/image1216.wmf)         ![](media/image1217.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1218.wmf)   ![](media/image1219.wmf)   ![](media/image1220.wmf)
  ![](media/image1221.wmf)         ![](media/image1222.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1223.wmf)   ![](media/image1224.wmf)   ![](media/image1225.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)          ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                   4                                                                                       5                          6                          7
  ![](media/image1226.wmf)         ![](media/image1227.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1228.wmf)   ![](media/image1229.wmf)   ![](media/image1230.wmf)
  ![](media/image1231.wmf)         ![](media/image1232.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1233.wmf)   ![](media/image1234.wmf)   ![](media/image1235.wmf)
  ![](media/image1215.wmf)                                                                                                                                                       

  *4 Layers, Codebook-Config =*4, ![](media/image1236.wmf)                                                                                                                                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image1091.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                 
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                    ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                             0                                                                                       1                          2                          3
  ![](media/image1216.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1237.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1238.wmf)   ![](media/image1239.wmf)   ![](media/image1240.wmf)
  ![](media/image1221.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1241.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1242.wmf)   ![](media/image1243.wmf)   ![](media/image1244.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                    ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                             4                                                                                       5                          6                          7
  ![](media/image1226.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1245.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1246.wmf)   ![](media/image1247.wmf)   ![](media/image1248.wmf)
  ![](media/image1231.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1249.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1250.wmf)   ![](media/image1251.wmf)   ![](media/image1252.wmf)
  ![](media/image1215.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                 

  *4 Layers, Codebook-Config =*4, ![](media/image1124.wmf)                                                                                                                                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
  ![](media/image1253.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                 
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                    ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                             0                                                                                       1                          2                          3
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1254.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1255.wmf)   ![](media/image1256.wmf)   ![](media/image1257.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1258.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1259.wmf)   ![](media/image1260.wmf)   ![](media/image1261.wmf)
  ![](media/image1134.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1262.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1263.wmf)   ![](media/image1264.wmf)   ![](media/image1265.wmf)
  ![](media/image988.wmf)                                    ![](media/image915.wmf){width="0.13541666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                         
                                                             4                                                                                       5                          6                          7
  ![](media/image1069.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1266.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1267.wmf)   ![](media/image1268.wmf)   ![](media/image1269.wmf)
  ![](media/image1084.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1270.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1271.wmf)   ![](media/image1272.wmf)   ![](media/image1273.wmf)
  ![](media/image1134.wmf)                                   ![](media/image1274.wmf)                                                                ![](media/image1275.wmf)   ![](media/image1276.wmf)   ![](media/image1277.wmf)
  ![](media/image1278.wmf)                                                                                                                                                                                 

Table 7.2.4-14: Codebook for 5-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 14+*P*

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| *5 Layers,     |                |                |                |
| P=8,           |                |                |                |
| N~1~=N~2~*     |                |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| Value of       | ![](media/     | ![](media/     |                |
| *Co            | image1279.wmf) | image1280.wmf) |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | ![](media      | ![](media      | ![](media/     |
|                | /image859.wmf) | /image860.wmf) | image1281.wmf) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2-4            | ![](media/     | ![](media/     | ![](media/     |
|                | image1282.wmf) | image1283.wmf) | image1284.wmf) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ![](media/ima  |                |                |                |
| ge1285.wmf)for |                |                |                |
| *Co            |                |                |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
| = 2-4          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| ![](media/     |                |                |                |
| image1286.wmf) |                |                |                |
| for            |                |                |                |
| *Co            |                |                |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
| = 1            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ***5        |             |             |             |             |
| Layers,**   |             |             |             |             |
| P=12*       |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| **Value of  | **Conf      | ![](media/  | ![](media/  |             |
| *Codeboo    | iguration** | image1287.w | image1288.w |             |
| k-Config*** |             | mf){width=" | mf){width=" |             |
|             |             | 0.166666666 | 0.177083333 |             |
|             |             | 66666666in" | 33333334in" |             |
|             |             | height="    | height="    |             |
|             |             | 0.21875in"} | 0.21875in"} |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | ![          | !           | !           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im | [](media/im | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1289.wmf) | age859.wmf) | age860.wmf) | ge1290.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | ![](media   | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | /image1175. | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | wmf){width= | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1291.wmf) |
|             | "0.80208333 |             |             |             |
|             | 33333334in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1293.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1295.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1296.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1297.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](media   |             |             |             |             |
| /image1298. |             |             |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |             |             |             |
| "3.90625in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="0.6 |             |             |             |             |
| 5625in"}for |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 2-4       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](media   |             |             |             |             |
| /image1299. |             |             |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |             |             |             |
| "2.91666666 |             |             |             |             |
| 66666665in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.510416666 |             |             |             |             |
| 6666666in"} |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 1         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ***5        |             |             |             |             |
| Layers,***  |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1300.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| **Value of  | **Conf      | ![](media/  | ![](media/  |             |
| *Codeboo    | iguration** | image1287.w | image1288.w |             |
| k-Config*** |             | mf){width=" | mf){width=" |             |
|             |             | 0.166666666 | 0.177083333 |             |
|             |             | 66666666in" | 33333334in" |             |
|             |             | height="    | height="    |             |
|             |             | 0.21875in"} | 0.21875in"} |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | ![          | !           | !           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im | [](media/im | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1301.wmf) | age859.wmf) | age860.wmf) | ge1302.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | !           | 0           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im |             | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1303.wmf) | age859.wmf) |             | ge1304.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | ![](media   | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | /image1175. | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | wmf){width= | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1305.wmf) |
|             | "0.80208333 |             |             |             |
|             | 33333334in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1306.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1307.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | ![](med     | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ia/image130 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 8.wmf)**,** | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1310.wmf) |
|             | ![          |             |             |             |
|             | ](media/ima |             |             |             |
|             | ge1309.wmf) |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | 0           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |             | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1311.wmf) | ge1282.wmf) |             | ge1310.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1312.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](media   |             |             |             |             |
| /image1298. |             |             |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |             |             |             |
| "3.90625in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.65625in"} |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 2-4       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](media   |             |             |             |             |
| /image1313. |             |             |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |             |             |             |
| "2.91666666 |             |             |             |             |
| 66666665in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.510416666 |             |             |             |             |
| 6666666in"} |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 1         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 7.2.4-15: Codebook for 6-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 14+*P*

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ***6 Layers,** |                |                |                |
| P=8,           |                |                |                |
| N~1~=N~2~*     |                |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| **Value of     | ![](media/im   | ![](media/im   |                |
| *Code          | age1287.wmf){w | age1288.wmf){w |                |
| book-Config*** | idth="0.166666 | idth="0.177083 |                |
|                | 66666666666in" | 33333333334in" |                |
|                | heigh          | heigh          |                |
|                | t="0.21875in"} | t="0.21875in"} |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | ![](media      | ![](media      | ![](media/     |
|                | /image859.wmf) | /image860.wmf) | image1314.wmf) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2-4            | ![](media/     | ![](media/     | ![](media/     |
|                | image1282.wmf) | image1283.wmf) | image1315.wmf) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| where          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| ![](media/     |                |                |                |
| image1316.wmf) |                |                |                |
| for            |                |                |                |
| *Co            |                |                |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
| = 2-4          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| ![](media/i    |                |                |                |
| mage1317.wmf){ |                |                |                |
| width="3.38541 |                |                |                |
| 66666666665in" |                |                |                |
| he             |                |                |                |
| ight="0.510416 |                |                |                |
| 6666666666in"} |                |                |                |
| for            |                |                |                |
| *Co            |                |                |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
| = 1            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ***6        |             |             |             |             |
| Layers,**   |             |             |             |             |
| P=12*       |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| **Value of  | **Conf      | ![](media/  | ![](media/  |             |
| *Codeboo    | iguration** | image1287.w | image1288.w |             |
| k-Config*** |             | mf){width=" | mf){width=" |             |
|             |             | 0.166666666 | 0.177083333 |             |
|             |             | 66666666in" | 33333334in" |             |
|             |             | height="    | height="    |             |
|             |             | 0.21875in"} | 0.21875in"} |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | ![          | !           | !           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im | [](media/im | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1318.wmf) | age859.wmf) | age860.wmf) | ge1319.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | ![](media   | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | /image1175. | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | wmf){width= | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1320.wmf) |
|             | "0.80208333 |             |             |             |
|             | 33333334in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1321.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1322.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1323.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1324.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1316.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 2-4       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](media   |             |             |             |             |
| /image1325. |             |             |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |             |             |             |
| "3.38541666 |             |             |             |             |
| 66666665in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.510416666 |             |             |             |             |
| 6666666in"} |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 1         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ***6        |             |             |             |             |
| Layers,***  |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1326.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| **Value of  | **Conf      | ![](media/  | ![](media/  |             |
| *Codeboo    | iguration** | image1287.w | image1288.w |             |
| k-Config*** |             | mf){width=" | mf){width=" |             |
|             |             | 0.166666666 | 0.177083333 |             |
|             |             | 66666666in" | 33333334in" |             |
|             |             | height="    | height="    |             |
|             |             | 0.21875in"} | 0.21875in"} |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | ![          | !           | !           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im | [](media/im | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1327.wmf) | age859.wmf) | age860.wmf) | ge1328.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | !           | 0           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im |             | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1329.wmf) | age859.wmf) |             | ge1330.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | ![](media   | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | /image1175. | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | wmf){width= | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1331.wmf) |
|             | "0.80208333 |             |             |             |
|             | 33333334in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1332.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1333.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | ![](med     | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ia/image130 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 8.wmf)**,** | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1334.wmf) |
|             | ![          |             |             |             |
|             | ](media/ima |             |             |             |
|             | ge1309.wmf) |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | 0           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |             | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1335.wmf) | ge1282.wmf) |             | ge1334.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1336.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1316.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 2-4       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](media   |             |             |             |             |
| /image1337. |             |             |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |             |             |             |
| "3.38541666 |             |             |             |             |
| 66666665in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.510416666 |             |             |             |             |
| 6666666in"} |             |             |             |             |
| and for     |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 1         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 7.2.4-16: Codebook for 7-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 14+*P*

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| *7 Layers P=8, |                |                |                |
| N~1~=N~2~*     |                |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| Value of       | ![](media/     | ![](media/     |                |
| *Co            | image1279.wmf) | image1280.wmf) |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | ![](media      | ![](media      | ![](media/     |
|                | /image859.wmf) | /image860.wmf) | image1338.wmf) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2-4            | ![](media/     | ![](media/     | ![](media/     |
|                | image1282.wmf) | image1283.wmf) | image1339.wmf) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| where          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| ![](media/ima  |                |                |                |
| ge1340.wmf)for |                |                |                |
| *Co            |                |                |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
| = 2-4          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| ![](media/ima  |                |                |                |
| ge1341.wmf)for |                |                |                |
| *Co            |                |                |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
| = 1            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ***7        |             |             |             |             |
| Layers**,   |             |             |             |             |
| P=12*       |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| **Value of  | **Conf      | ![](media/  | ![](media/  |             |
| *Codeboo    | iguration** | image1287.w | image1288.w |             |
| k-Config*** |             | mf){width=" | mf){width=" |             |
|             |             | 0.166666666 | 0.177083333 |             |
|             |             | 66666666in" | 33333334in" |             |
|             |             | height="    | height="    |             |
|             |             | 0.21875in"} | 0.21875in"} |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | ![          | !           | !           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im | [](media/im | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1318.wmf) | age859.wmf) | age860.wmf) | ge1342.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | ![](media   | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | /image1175. | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | wmf){width= | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1343.wmf) |
|             | "0.80208333 |             |             |             |
|             | 33333334in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1344.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1345.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1346.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1347.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](m       |             |             |             |             |
| edia/image1 |             |             |             |             |
| 348.wmf)for |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 2-4       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](media   |             |             |             |             |
| /image1349. |             |             |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |             |             |             |
| "3.96875in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.510416666 |             |             |             |             |
| 6666666in"} |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 1         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ***7        |             |             |             |             |
| Layers,***  |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1326.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| **Value of  | **Conf      | ![](media/  | ![](media/  |             |
| *Codeboo    | iguration** | image1287.w | image1288.w |             |
| k-Config*** |             | mf){width=" | mf){width=" |             |
|             |             | 0.166666666 | 0.177083333 |             |
|             |             | 66666666in" | 33333334in" |             |
|             |             | height="    | height="    |             |
|             |             | 0.21875in"} | 0.21875in"} |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | ![          | !           | !           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im | [](media/im | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1350.wmf) | age859.wmf) | age860.wmf) | ge1351.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | !           | 0           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im |             | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1329.wmf) | age859.wmf) |             | ge1352.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | ![](media   | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | /image1175. | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | wmf){width= | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1353.wmf) |
|             | "0.80208333 |             |             |             |
|             | 33333334in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1354.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1355.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | ![](med     | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ia/image130 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 8.wmf)**,** | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1356.wmf) |
|             | ![          |             |             |             |
|             | ](media/ima |             |             |             |
|             | ge1309.wmf) |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | 0           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |             | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1335.wmf) | ge1282.wmf) |             | ge1356.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1357.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1340.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 2-4       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](media   |             |             |             |             |
| /image1358. |             |             |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |             |             |             |
| "3.96875in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.510416666 |             |             |             |             |
| 6666666in"} |             |             |             |             |
| and for     |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 1         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 7.2.4-17: Codebook for 8-layer CSI reporting using antenna ports
15 to 14+*P*

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ***8 Layers,** |                |                |                |
| P=8,           |                |                |                |
| N~1~=N~2~*     |                |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| **Value of     | ![](media/im   | ![](media/im   |                |
| *Code          | age1287.wmf){w | age1288.wmf){w |                |
| book-Config*** | idth="0.166666 | idth="0.177083 |                |
|                | 66666666666in" | 33333333334in" |                |
|                | heigh          | heigh          |                |
|                | t="0.21875in"} | t="0.21875in"} |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | ![](media      | ![](media      | ![](media/     |
|                | /image859.wmf) | /image860.wmf) | image1359.wmf) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2-4            | ![](media/     | ![](media/     | ![](media/     |
|                | image1282.wmf) | image1283.wmf) | image1360.wmf) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| where          |                |                |                |
| ![](media/     |                |                |                |
| image1361.wmf) |                |                |                |
| {width="6.0104 |                |                |                |
| 16666666667in" |                |                |                |
| height="       |                |                |                |
| 0.65625in"}for |                |                |                |
| *Co            |                |                |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
| = 2-4          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| ![](media/ima  |                |                |                |
| ge1362.wmf){wi |                |                |                |
| dth="4.4375in" |                |                |                |
| he             |                |                |                |
| ight="0.510416 |                |                |                |
| 6666666666in"} |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| for            |                |                |                |
| *Co            |                |                |                |
| debook-Config* |                |                |                |
| = 1            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ***8        |             |             |             |             |
| Layers,**   |             |             |             |             |
| P=12*       |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| **Value of  | **Conf      | ![](media/  | ![](media/  |             |
| *Codeboo    | iguration** | image1287.w | image1288.w |             |
| k-Config*** |             | mf){width=" | mf){width=" |             |
|             |             | 0.166666666 | 0.177083333 |             |
|             |             | 66666666in" | 33333334in" |             |
|             |             | height="    | height="    |             |
|             |             | 0.21875in"} | 0.21875in"} |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | ![          | !           | !           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im | [](media/im | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1318.wmf) | age859.wmf) | age860.wmf) | ge1363.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | ![](media   | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | /image1175. | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | wmf){width= | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1364.wmf) |
|             | "0.80208333 |             |             |             |
|             | 33333334in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1365.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1366.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1367.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1368.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
| ![](medi    |             |             |             |             |
| a/image1369 |             |             |             |             |
| .wmf){width |             |             |             |             |
| ="6.0104166 |             |             |             |             |
| 66666667in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.65625in"} |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 2-4       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](medi    |             |             |             |             |
| a/image1370 |             |             |             |             |
| .wmf){width |             |             |             |             |
| ="4.4375in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.510416666 |             |             |             |             |
| 6666666in"} |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 1         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ***8        |             |             |             |             |
| Layers,***  |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1326.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| **Value of  | **Conf      | ![](media/  | ![](media/  |             |
| *Codeboo    | iguration** | image1287.w | image1288.w |             |
| k-Config*** |             | mf){width=" | mf){width=" |             |
|             |             | 0.166666666 | 0.177083333 |             |
|             |             | 66666666in" | 33333334in" |             |
|             |             | height="    | height="    |             |
|             |             | 0.21875in"} | 0.21875in"} |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | ![          | !           | !           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im | [](media/im | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1371.wmf) | age859.wmf) | age860.wmf) | ge1372.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | !           | 0           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | [](media/im |             | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1329.wmf) | age859.wmf) |             | ge1373.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | ![](media   | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | /image1175. | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | wmf){width= | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1374.wmf) |
|             | "0.80208333 |             |             |             |
|             | 33333334in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 292.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1375.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1376.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | ![](med     | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ia/image137 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 7.wmf)**,** | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1378.wmf) |
|             | ![          |             |             |             |
|             | ](media/ima |             |             |             |
|             | ge1309.wmf) |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | 0           | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |             | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1335.wmf) | ge1282.wmf) |             | ge1378.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![](m       | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | edia/image1 | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | 294.wmf){wi | ge1282.wmf) | ge1283.wmf) | ge1379.wmf) |
|             | dth="0.5in" |             |             |             |
|             | height="0   |             |             |             |
|             | .2083333333 |             |             |             |
|             | 3333334in"} |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       |             |             |             |             |
| ![](medi    |             |             |             |             |
| a/image1380 |             |             |             |             |
| .wmf){width |             |             |             |             |
| ="6.0104166 |             |             |             |             |
| 66666667in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.65625in"} |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 2-4       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![](medi    |             |             |             |             |
| a/image1381 |             |             |             |             |
| .wmf){width |             |             |             |             |
| ="4.4375in" |             |             |             |             |
| height="    |             |             |             |             |
| 0.510416666 |             |             |             |             |
| 6666666in"} |             |             |             |             |
| *Codeb      |             |             |             |             |
| ook-Config* |             |             |             |             |
| = 1         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For 4 antenna ports ![](media/image1382.wmf), 8 antenna ports
![](media/image831.wmf), 12 antenna ports ![](media/image1383.wmf), 16
antenna ports ![](media/image833.wmf), 20 antenna ports
![](media/image834.wmf), 24 antenna ports ![](media/image835.wmf), 28
antenna ports ![](media/image836.wmf), 32 antenna ports
![](media/image837.wmf), and UE configured with higher layer parameter
*advancedCodebookEnabled=TRUE*, and ![](media/image754.wmf) with
![](media/image660.wmf) equal to the associated RI value, each PMI value
corresponds to four codebook indices given in Table 7.2.4-17C, where the
quantities ![](media/image755.wmf){width="0.17708333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, ![](media/image838.wmf)and
![](media/image839.wmf) are given by

![](media/image840.wmf)

-   The values of ![](media/image841.wmf), ![](media/image842.wmf) are
    > configured with the higher-layer parameter *codebookConfig-N1*,
    > and *codebookConfig-N2* respectively. The supported configurations
    > of ![](media/image846.wmf) for a given number of CSI-RS ports are
    > given in Table 7.2.4-9. In addition, ![](media/image1384.wmf) and
    > ![](media/image1385.wmf) are also supported configurations. The
    > number of CSI-RS ports, *P*, is ![](media/image847.wmf).
    > ![](media/image1386.wmf); ![](media/image1387.wmf)
    > if![](media/image1388.wmf), ![](media/image1389.wmf)otherwise.

-   UE shall only use ![](media/image848.wmf)and shall not report
    > ![](media/image849.wmf)if the value of *codebookConfigN2* is set
    > to 1.

-   A first PMI value ![](media/image850.wmf) corresponds to the
    > codebook indices combination ![](media/image1390.wmf), and a
    > second PMI value ![](media/image852.wmf)corresponds to the
    > codebook index ![](media/image853.wmf) given in Table 7.2.4-17C
    > for 1-layer and 2-layers. ![](media/image1391.wmf) for 1-layer,
    > and ![](media/image1392.wmf) for 2-layers where
    > ![](media/image1393.wmf) is the index for the
    > ![](media/image1394.wmf)layer. The mapping of
    > ![](media/image1395.wmf) to ![](media/image1396.wmf) and
    > ![](media/image1397.wmf) is given in Table 7.2.4-17A and relative
    > power indicator (RPI), ![](media/image416.wmf), to
    > ![](media/image1398.wmf) is given in Table 7.2.4-17B.

-   In some cases codebook subsampling is supported. The sub-sampled
    > codebook for PUCCH mode 1-1 for value of ![](media/image591.wmf)
    > is defined in Table 7.2.2-1H for PUCCH Reporting Type 2b.

Table 7.2.4-17A: Mapping of ![](media/image1395.wmf) field to
![](media/image1396.wmf) and ![](media/image1397.wmf)

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p><strong>Value of</strong></p>
<p><img src="media/image1395.wmf" /></p></th>
<th><img src="media/image1399.wmf" /></th>
<th><img src="media/image1400.wmf" /></th>
<th><img src="media/image1401.wmf" /></th>
<th><img src="media/image1402.wmf" /></th>
<th><img src="media/image1403.wmf" /></th>
<th><img src="media/image1404.wmf" /></th>
<th><img src="media/image1405.wmf" /></th>
<th><img src="media/image1406.wmf" /></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><img src="media/image1396.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1397.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1396.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1397.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1396.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1397.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1396.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1397.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1396.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1397.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1396.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1397.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1396.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1397.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1396.wmf" /></td>
<td><img src="media/image1397.wmf" /></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>1</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2</td>
<td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3</td>
<td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>3</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>5</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>6</td>
<td>0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>6</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>7</td>
<td>0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 7.2.1-17B: Mapping of ![](media/image416.wmf) field to
![](media/image1398.wmf)

  ---------------------------------------- --------------------------
  Value of ![](media/image416.wmf) field   ![](media/image1398.wmf)
  0                                        ![](media/image1407.wmf)
  1                                        ![](media/image1408.wmf)
  2                                        ![](media/image1409.wmf)
  3                                        ![](media/image1410.wmf)
  ---------------------------------------- --------------------------

Table 7.2.4-17C: Codebook for 1-layer and 2-layer CSI reporting using
antenna ports 15 to 14+*P*

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *1 and 2    |             |             |             |             |
| Layers*     |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1411.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ![          | 0           | 1           | 2           | 3           |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1371.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![]         |             |             |             |             |
| (media/imag |             |             |             |             |
| e1412.wmf), |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![]         |             |             |             |             |
| (media/imag |             |             |             |             |
| e1413.wmf), |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1414.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1415.wmf) | ge1416.wmf) | ge1417.wmf) | ge1418.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 4           | 5           | 6           | 7           |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1419.wmf) | ge1420.wmf) | ge1421.wmf) | ge1422.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 8           | 9           | 10          | 11          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1423.wmf) | ge1424.wmf) | ge1425.wmf) | ge1426.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 12          | 13          | 14          | 15          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1427.wmf) | ge1428.wmf) | ge1429.wmf) | ge1430.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1411.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ![          | 0           | 1           | 2           | 3           |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1329.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![]         |             |             |             |             |
| (media/imag |             |             |             |             |
| e1412.wmf), |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![]         |             |             |             |             |
| (media/imag |             |             |             |             |
| e1431.wmf), |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| ![          |             |             |             |             |
| ](media/ima |             |             |             |             |
| ge1414.wmf) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1432.wmf) | ge1433.wmf) | ge1434.wmf) | ge1435.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 4           | 5           | 6           | 7           |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1436.wmf) | ge1437.wmf) | ge1438.wmf) | ge1439.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 8           | 9           | 10          | 11          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1440.wmf) | ge1441.wmf) | ge1442.wmf) | ge1443.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 12          | 13          | 14          | 15          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          | ![          | ![          | ![          |
|             | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima | ](media/ima |
|             | ge1444.wmf) | ge1445.wmf) | ge1446.wmf) | ge1447.wmf) |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | ![          |             |             |             |
|             | ](media/ima |             |             |             |
|             | ge1448.wmf) |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | For one     |             |             |             |
|             | layer:      |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | ![]         |             |             |             |
|             | (media/imag |             |             |             |
|             | e1449.wmf), |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | and for two |             |             |             |
|             | layers:     |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | $$W_{k_{1}, |             |             |             |
|             | k_{2},m_{1} |             |             |             |
|             | ,m_{2},p,q_ |             |             |             |
|             | {1,1},q_{2, |             |             |             |
|             | 1},q_{3,1}, |             |             |             |
|             | q_{1,2},q_{ |             |             |             |
|             | 2,2},q_{3,2 |             |             |             |
|             | }}^{(2)} =  |             |             |             |
|             | \frac{1}{\s |             |             |             |
|             | qrt{2}}\beg |             |             |             |
|             | in{bmatrix} |             |             |             |
|             | W_{k_{1},k  |             |             |             |
|             | _{2},m_{1}, |             |             |             |
|             | m_{2},p,q_{ |             |             |             |
|             | 1,1},q_{2,1 |             |             |             |
|             | },q_{3,1}}^ |             |             |             |
|             | {1} & W_{k_ |             |             |             |
|             | {1},k_{2},m |             |             |             |
|             | _{1},m_{2}, |             |             |             |
|             | p,q_{1,2},q |             |             |             |
|             | _{2,2},q_{3 |             |             |             |
|             | ,2}}^{2} \\ |             |             |             |
|             | \end        |             |             |             |
|             | {bmatrix}$$ |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and
*eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS resource configured,
and higher layer parameter *alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE*
configured, or a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type2* is set to \'CLASS B\', and one CSI-RS
resource configured, and higher layer parameter
*alternativeCodebookEnabledCLASSB\_K1=TRUE* configured,

\- For 2 antenna ports![](media/image1450.wmf), a PMI value corresponds
to the codebook index ![](media/image662.wmf) given in Table 7.2.4-18
with ![](media/image763.wmf){width="0.125in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"} equal to the associated RI value.

\- For 2 antenna ports {15,16}, UE shall only use the precoding matrix
corresponding to codebook index 0 in Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 of \[3\] with
![](media/image1451.wmf) and shall not report PMI value if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *semiOpenLoop*=*TRUE*.

\- For 4 antenna ports ![](media/image1452.wmf), a PMI corresponds to
the codebook index ![](media/image662.wmf) given in Table 7.2.4-19 with
![](media/image763.wmf){width="0.125in" height="0.13541666666666666in"}
equal to the associated RI value.

\- For 4 antenna ports ![](media/image1452.wmf), UE shall not report PMI
value and shall use the precoding matrix for REs of *j*^th^ PRB-pair
according to ![](media/image663.wmf), where ![](media/image664.wmf) is
the precoder index given by![](media/image665.wmf) and
![](media/image666.wmf)denote precoder matrices corresponding to
precoder indices 12,13,14 and 15, respectively, in Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 of
\[3\] with ![](media/image657.wmf) if the UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *semiOpenLoop*=*TRUE*.

\- For 8 antenna ports![](media/image1453.wmf), a PMI value corresponds
to the codebook index ![](media/image662.wmf) given in Table 7.2.4-20
with ![](media/image763.wmf){width="0.125in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"} equal to the associated RI value.

where ![](media/image1454.wmf)is a length-*N* column-vector where its
*l*-th element is 1 for *k*=*l* (![](media/image1455.wmf)), and 0
otherwise.

Table 7.2.4-18: Codebook for ![](media/image423.wmf)-layer CSI reporting
using antenna ports![](media/image1456.wmf)

  Codebook index, *n*   Number of layers ![](media/image423.wmf)   
  --------------------- ------------------------------------------ --------------------------
                        1                                          2
  0                     ![](media/image1457.wmf)                   ![](media/image1458.wmf)
  1                     ![](media/image1459.wmf)                   ![](media/image1460.wmf)
  2                     ![](media/image1461.wmf)                   \-
  3                     ![](media/image1462.wmf)                   \-

Table 7.2.4-19: Codebook for ![](media/image423.wmf)-layer CSI reporting
using antenna ports![](media/image1452.wmf)

  Codebook index, *n*   Number of layers ![](media/image423.wmf)                                                         
  --------------------- ------------------------------------------ -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
                        1                                          2                          3                          4
  0                     ![](media/image1463.wmf)                   ![](media/image1464.wmf)   ![](media/image1465.wmf)   ![](media/image1466.wmf)
  1                     ![](media/image1467.wmf)                   ![](media/image1468.wmf)   ![](media/image1469.wmf)   ![](media/image1470.wmf)
  2                     ![](media/image1471.wmf)                   ![](media/image1472.wmf)   ![](media/image1473.wmf)   \-
  3                     ![](media/image1474.wmf)                   ![](media/image1475.wmf)   ![](media/image1476.wmf)   \-
  4                     ![](media/image1477.wmf)                   ![](media/image1478.wmf)   \-                         \-
  5                     ![](media/image1479.wmf)                   ![](media/image1480.wmf)   \-                         \-
  6                     ![](media/image1481.wmf)                   ![](media/image1482.wmf)   \-                         \-
  7                     ![](media/image1483.wmf)                   ![](media/image1484.wmf)   \-                         \-

Table 7.2.4-20: Codebook for ![](media/image423.wmf)-layer CSI reporting
using antenna ports![](media/image1453.wmf)

  Codebook index, *n*   Number of layers ![](media/image423.wmf)                                                         
  --------------------- ------------------------------------------ -------------------------- -------------------------- --------------------------
                        1                                          2                          3                          4
  0                     ![](media/image1485.wmf)                   ![](media/image1486.wmf)   ![](media/image1487.wmf)   ![](media/image1488.wmf)
  1                     ![](media/image1489.wmf)                   ![](media/image1490.wmf)   ![](media/image1491.wmf)   ![](media/image1492.wmf)
  2                     ![](media/image1493.wmf)                   ![](media/image1494.wmf)   ![](media/image1495.wmf)   ![](media/image1496.wmf)
  3                     ![](media/image1497.wmf)                   ![](media/image1498.wmf)   ![](media/image1499.wmf)   ![](media/image1500.wmf)
  4                     ![](media/image1501.wmf)                   ![](media/image1502.wmf)   ![](media/image1503.wmf)   ![](media/image1504.wmf)
  5                     ![](media/image1505.wmf)                   ![](media/image1506.wmf)   ![](media/image1507.wmf)   ![](media/image1508.wmf)
  6                     ![](media/image1509.wmf)                   ![](media/image1510.wmf)   ![](media/image1511.wmf)   ![](media/image1512.wmf)
  7                     ![](media/image1513.wmf)                   ![](media/image1514.wmf)   ![](media/image1515.wmf)   ![](media/image1516.wmf)
  8                     ![](media/image1517.wmf)                   ![](media/image1518.wmf)   ![](media/image1519.wmf)   \-
  9                     ![](media/image1520.wmf)                   ![](media/image1521.wmf)   ![](media/image1522.wmf)   \-
  10                    ![](media/image1523.wmf)                   ![](media/image1524.wmf)   ![](media/image1525.wmf)   \-
  11                    ![](media/image1526.wmf)                   ![](media/image1527.wmf)   ![](media/image1528.wmf)   \-
  12                    ![](media/image1529.wmf)                   ![](media/image1530.wmf)   ![](media/image1531.wmf)   \-
  13                    ![](media/image1532.wmf)                   ![](media/image1533.wmf)   ![](media/image1534.wmf)   \-
  14                    ![](media/image1535.wmf)                   ![](media/image1536.wmf)   ![](media/image1537.wmf)   \-
  15                    ![](media/image1538.wmf)                   ![](media/image1539.wmf)   ![](media/image1540.wmf)   \-

  Codebook index, *n*   Number of layers ![](media/image423.wmf)   
  --------------------- ------------------------------------------ --------------------------
                        5                                          6
  0                     ![](media/image1541.wmf)                   ![](media/image1542.wmf)
  1-15                  \-                                         \-

  Codebook index, *n*   Number of layers ![](media/image423.wmf)   
  --------------------- ------------------------------------------ --------------------------
                        7                                          8
  0                     ![](media/image1543.wmf)                   ![](media/image1544.wmf)
  1-15                  \-                                         \-

###  7.2.5 Channel-State Information -- Reference Signal (CSI-RS) definition

For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 9 and not
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*,
the UE can be configured with one CSI-RS resource configuration.

*For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 9* and
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS A\'*, the UE can be configured with one* CSI-RS resource
configuration.

*For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 9* and
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is
set to \'CLASS B\'*, the UE can be configured with one or more* CSI-RS
resource configuration(s).

*For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 9* and
configured with higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type2*, and *eMIMO-Type2*
is set to \'CLASS B\'*, the UE can be configured with one* CSI-RS
resource configuration.

For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 10, the UE can
be configured with one or more CSI-RS resource configuration(s).

The following parameters for which the UE shall assume non-zero
transmission power for CSI-RS are configured via higher layer signaling
for each CSI-RS resource configuration:

\- CSI-RS resource configuration identity, if the UE is configured in
transmission mode 9 and configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\', and the UE is
configured with more than one CSI-RS resource configurations, or if the
UE is configured in transmission mode 10,

*- Number of CSI-RS ports*. The allowable values and port mapping are
given in Clause 6.10.5 of \[3\].

*- CSI RS Configuration (see Table 6.10.5.2-1 and Table 6.10.5.2-2 in
\[3\])*

*- CSI RS subframe configuration*
![](media/image1545.wmf){width="0.4375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} except for aperiodic CSI-RS resource
configuration. The allowable values are given in Clause 6.10.5.3 of
\[3\].

\- UE assumption on reference PDSCH transmitted power for CSI feedback
![](media/image1546.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, if the UE is configured in transmission
mode 9.

\- UE assumption on reference PDSCH transmitted power for CSI feedback
![](media/image1546.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} for each CSI process, if the UE is
configured in transmission mode 10. If CSI subframe sets
![](media/image1547.wmf){width="0.40625in" height="0.21875in"} and
![](media/image1548.wmf){width="0.3854166666666667in"
height="0.21875in"} are configured by higher layers for a CSI
process,![](media/image1546.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} is configured for each CSI subframe set
of the CSI process.

\- Pseudo-random sequence generator parameter,
![](media/image1549.wmf){width="0.21875in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}. The allowable values are given in
\[11\].

\- *CDM type parameter, if the* UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS A\' for a CSI
process. The allowable values are given in Clause 6.10.5.2 of \[3\].

\- *frequencyDensity*, *if the* UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type* or *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process. The allowable
values are given in Clause 6.10.5.2 of \[3\].

\- *transmissionComb*, *if the* UE is configured with higher layer
parameter *eMIMO-Type* or *eMIMO-Type2* for a CSI process. The allowable
values are given in Clause 6.10.5.2 of \[3\].

\- Higher layer parameter *qcl-CRS-Info-r11* for quasi co-location type
B or type C UE assumption of CRS antenna ports and CSI-RS antenna ports
with the following parameters, if the UE is configured in transmission
mode 10:

*- qcl-ScramblingIdentity-r11.*

*- crs-PortsCount-r11.*

*- mbsfn-SubframeConfigList-r11.*

![](media/image1550.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}* is the assumed ratio of PDSCH EPRE to
CSI-RS EPRE when UE derives CSI feedback and takes values in the range
of \[-8, 15\] dB with 1 dB step size, where the PDSCH EPRE corresponds
to the symbols for which* the ratio of the PDSCH EPRE to the
cell-specific RS EPRE is denoted by
![](media/image1551.wmf){width="0.21875in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}, as specified in Table 5.2-2 and Table
5.2-3*.*

A UE should not expect the configuration of CSI-RS and PMCH in the same
subframe of a serving cell.

A BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA and higher layer parameter
*ce-CSI-RS-Feedback* is not expected to be configured with aperiodic
CSI-RS resource configuration.

For frame structure type 2 serving cell and 4 CRS ports, the UE is not
expected to receive a CSI RS Configuration index (see Table 6.10.5.2-1
and Table 6.10.5.2-2 in \[3\]) belonging to the set \[20-31\] for the
normal CP case or the set \[16-27\] for the extended CP case.

A UE may assume the CSI-RS antenna ports of a CSI-RS resource
configuration are quasi co-located (as defined in \[3\]) with respect to
delay spread, Doppler spread, Doppler shift, average gain, and average
delay.

*A* UE configured in transmission mode 10 and with quasi co-location
type B or type C, *may assume the antenna ports 0 -- 3* associated with
*qcl-CRS-Info-r11* corresponding *to a CSI-RS resource configuration*
and antenna ports *15 -- 46 corresponding to the CSI-RS resource
configuration are quasi co-located (as defined in \[3\]) with respect to
Doppler shift, and Doppler spread.*

*A* UE configured in transmission mode 10, and configured with higher
layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\',
and the number of configured CSI-RS resources is more than one for a CSI
process, and with quasi co-location type B, is not expected to receive
CSI-RS resource configurations for the CSI process that have different
values of the higher layer parameter *qcl-CRS-Info-r11*.

*A* UE configured in transmission mode 10, and configured with higher
layer parameter *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2*, and with quasi
co-location type B, is not expected to receive CSI-RS resource
configurations for *eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type2* of the CSI process
that have different values of the higher layer parameter
*qcl-CRS-Info-r11*.

A BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA or CEModeB is not expected to be
configured with non-zero transmission power CSI-RS, except when the
BL/CE UE is configured with the higher layer parameter
*ce-CSI-RS-Feedback*.

*A* UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10, and configured with
higher layer parameter *eMIMO-Type*, and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS
A\', and more than one CSI-RS configurations for a CSI-RS resource, is
not expected to receive CSI-RS configurations for the CSI-RS resource
that have different values of *frequencyDensity*.

###  7.2.6 Channel-State Information -- Interference Measurement (CSI-IM) Resource definition

For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 10, the UE can
be configured with one or more CSI-IM resource configuration(s). The
following parameters are configured via higher layer signaling for each
CSI-IM resource configuration:

\- Zero-power CSI RS Configuration (see Table 6.10.5.2-1 and Table
6.10.5.2-2 in \[3\])

\- Zero-power CSI RS subframe configuration
![](media/image1545.wmf){width="0.4375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}. The allowable values are given in
Clause 6.10.5.3 of \[3\].

For a serving cell, if a UE is not configured with the higher layer
parameter *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12*, the UE is not expected to
receive CSI-IM resource configuration(s) that are not all completely
overlapping with one zero-power CSI-RS resource configuration which can
be configured for the UE.

*A UE is not expected to receive a CSI-IM resource configuration that is
not completely overlapping with one of the zero-power CSI-RS resource
configurations defined in Clause 7.2.7.*

For a serving cell, if a UE is not configured with CSI subframe sets
![](media/image1547.wmf){width="0.40625in" height="0.21875in"} and
![](media/image1552.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2708333333333333in"}
for any CSI process, and the UE is configured with four CSI-IM
resources, then the UE is not expected to be configured with CSI
processes that are associated with all of the four CSI-IM resources.

A UE should not expect the configuration of CSI-IM resource and PMCH in
the same subframe of a serving cell.

### 7.2.7 Zero Power CSI-RS Resource definition 

*For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 1-9 and UE*
not configured with *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for the serving
cell*, the UE can be configured with one* zero-power CSI-RS resource
configuration. *For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission
mode 1-9 and UE* configured with *csi-SubframePatternConfig-r12* for the
serving cell*, the UE can be configured with up to two* zero-power
CSI-RS resource configurations. *For a serving cell and UE configured in
transmission mode 10, the* UE can be configured with one or more
zero-power CSI-RS resource configuration(s).

For a serving cell, the UE can be configured with up to 5 additional
zero-power CSI-RS resource configurations according to the higher layer
parameter *ds-ZeroTxPowerCSI-RS-r12*.

The following parameters are configured via higher layer signaling for
each zero-power CSI-RS resource configuration:

\- Zero-power *CSI RS Configuration list (*16-bit bitmap
*ZeroPowerCSI-RS in \[3\])*

\- Zero-power *CSI RS subframe configuration*
![](media/image1545.wmf){width="0.4375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} except for aperiodic zero-power CSI-RS
resource configuration*.* The allowable values are given in Clause
6.10.5.3 of \[3\].

A UE should not expect the configuration of zero-power CSI-RS and PMCH
in the same subframe of a serving cell.

For frame structure type 1 serving cell, the UE is not expected to
receive the 16-bit bitmap *ZeroPowerCSI-RS* with any one of the 6 LSB
bits set to 1 for the normal CP case, or with any one of the 8 LSB bits
set to 1 for the extended CP case.

For frame structure type 2 serving cell and 4 CRS ports, the UE is not
expected to receive the 16-bit bitmap *ZeroPowerCSI-RS* with any one of
the 6 LSB bits set to 1 for the normal CP case, or with any one of the 8
LSB bits set to 1 for the extended CP case.

A BL/CE UE configured with CEModeA or CEModeB is not expected to be
configured with zero-power CSI-RS.

### 7.2.8 CSI-RS Activation / Deactivation

*For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 9 or 10* and
for a CSI process the UE configured with higher layer parameter
*eMIMO-Type* and *eMIMO-Type* is set to \'CLASS B\',

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList,* the higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode*
is set to aperiodic*,* and number of configured CSI-RS resources in
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* is more than 2 and more than the number of
activated CSI-RS resources *N* given by the higher layer parameter
*activatedResources* for the CSI process, or

\- if the higher layer parameter *csi-RS-NZP-mode* is set to multiShot,

\- when a UE receives an activation command \[8\] for CSI-RS resource(s)
associated with the CSI process in subframe *n*, the corresponding
actions in \[8\] and UE assumption on CSI-RS transmission corresponding
to the ![](media/image1553.wmf) activated CSI-RS resource(s) shall be
applied no later than the minimum requirement defined in \[10\] and no
earlier than subframe *n+8*, where ![](media/image1554.wmf)is the number
of activated CSI-RS resources for the CSI process, and
![](media/image1555.wmf)is the maximum number of CSI-RS resources
supported by the UE for a CSI process of the serving cell given by the
higher layer parameter *nMaxResource-r14* included in the
*MIMO-UE-ParametersPerTM-r14xy*,

\- when a UE receives a deactivation command \[8\] for activated CSI-RS
resource(s) associated with the CSI process in subframe *n*, the
corresponding actions in \[8\] and UE assumption on cessation of CSI-RS
transmission corresponding to the deactivated CSI-RS resource(s) shall
apply no later than the minimum requirement defined in \[10\] and no
later than subframe *n+8.*

7.3 UE procedure for reporting HARQ-ACK
---------------------------------------

If the UE is not configured with *shortTTI*, the term \'subframe/slot\'
refers to a subframe in this clause.

If the UE is configured with *shortTTI*, and UCI is to be transmitted in
a slot, the term \'subframe/slot\' refers to a slot, subframe otherwise,
in this clause.

If the UE is configured with *shortTTI*, and UCI is to be transmitted in
a subslot, the term \'slot/subslot\' refers to a subslot, slot
otherwise, in this clause.

If the UE is configured with a PUCCH-SCell, the UE shall apply the
procedures described in this clause for both primary PUCCH group and
secondary PUCCH group unless stated otherwise

-   When the procedures are applied for the primary PUCCH group, the
    > terms \'secondary cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\',
    > and \'serving cells\' in this clause refer to secondary cell,
    > secondary cells, serving cell or serving cells belonging to the
    > primary PUCCH group respectively unless stated otherwise.

-   When the procedures are applied for secondary PUCCH group, the terms
    > \'secondary cell\', \'secondary cells\', \'serving cell\' and
    > \'serving cells\' in this clause refer to secondary cell,
    > secondary cells (not including the PUCCH-SCell), serving cell,
    > serving cells belonging to the secondary PUCCH group respectively
    > unless stated otherwise. The term \'primary cell\' in this clause
    > refers to the PUCCH-SCell of the secondary PUCCH group.

If each of the serving cell(s) configured for the UE has frame structure
type 1, the UE procedure for HARQ-ACK reporting for frame structure type
1 is given in Clause 7.3.1.

If each of the serving cell(s) configured for the UE has frame structure
type 2, the UE procedure for HARQ-ACK reporting for frame structure type
2 is given in Clause 7.3.2.

If the UE is configured with more than one serving cell, and if the
frame structure type of any two configured serving cells is different,
and if the primary cell is frame structure type 1, UE procedure for
HARQ-ACK reporting is given in Clause 7.3.3.

If the UE is configured for more than one serving cell, and if the frame
structure type of any two configured serving cells is different, and if
the primary cell is frame structure type 2, UE procedure for HARQ-ACK
reporting is given in Clause 7.3.4.

**For a UE configured with EN-DC/NE-DC**

**- if serving cell frame structure type 1, and** if the UE is
configured with *tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the
serving cell, or

\- if the UE configured with EN-DC, and **if serving cell frame
structure type 1, and** if the UE is configured with
*tdm-PatternConfig2* for the serving cell, or

\- if the UE configured with EN-DC, and **if** primary cell frame
structure type 2, and if the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2*
for the primary cell, and if the UE configured with more than one
serving cells, **and if secondary serving cell frame structure type 2
with** different UL/DL configuration than the primary cell, or if
secondary serving cell is frame structure type 1,

\- UE procedure for HARQ-ACK reporting for the serving cell is given in
Clause 7.3.4 assuming primary cell frame structure type 2 with \"UL/DL
configuration\" given by
*tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC*/*tdm-PatternConfig2* and
**serving cell frame structure type 1**. The UE shall apply an offset
value given by ***harq-Offset-r15*/*harq-Offset-r16*** **to the subframe
index** in the UL/DL configuration for determining the HARQ-ACK
reporting for the serving cell**.**

\- if the UE configured with EN-DC, and **if** primary cell frame
structure type 2, and if the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2*
for the primary cell,

\- UE procedure for HARQ-ACK reporting for the primary cell is given in
Clause 7.3.2.1 assuming the UE is configured with one serving cell with
\"UL/DL configuration\" given by *tdm-PatternConfig2* and **serving cell
frame structure type 2**. The UE shall apply an offset value given by
***harq-Offset-r16*** **to the subframe index** in the UL/DL
configuration for determining the HARQ-ACK reporting for the serving
cell**.**

**- if serving cell frame structure type 1, and** if the UE is
configured with *tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the
serving cell, or if the UE configured with EN-DC, and **if the UE does
not indicate** a capability for dynamic power sharing (as specified in
\[17\]), **and** if the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2* for
the serving cell, the **UE is not** expected to transmit any uplink
physical channel or signal in the serving cell on subframes other than
the offset-UL subframes, where the offset-UL subframes are determined by
applying the offset value to the subframes denoted as uplink in the
UL/DL configuration.

\- **if serving cell frame structure type 1, and** if the UE is
configured with *tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the
serving cell, or if the UE configured with EN-DC, and **if serving cell
frame structure type 1, and** if the UE is configured with
*tdm-PatternConfig2* for the serving cell,

\- For a PDSCH data transmissions signalled via PDCCH in common search
space for which HARQ-ACK response shall be provided, the UE shall assume
the **value of the DAI field in the corresponding DCI format is equal to
\'1\'. If the UE transmits HARQ-ACK on PUSCH scheduled via** PDCCH in
common search space, the UE shall assume the **value of the DAI field in
the DCI format for scheduling the PUSCH is equal to \'1\'** and **the UE
is not expected to receive PDSCH scheduled via PDCCH/EPDDCH in
UE-specific search space for which the HARQ-ACK response is multiplexed
onto the PUSCH.**

For a UE configured with EN-DC**/NE-DC** and more than one serving
cells,

\- if primary cell frame structure type 1 and if the UE is configured
with *tdm-PatternConfig/tdm-PatternConfigNE-DC* for the primary cell, or

\- if the UE configured with EN-DC, and if primary cell frame structure
type 1 and if the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2* for the
primary cell, or

\- if the UE configured with EN-DC, and if primary cell frame structure
type 2 and if the UE is configured with *tdm-PatternConfig2* for the
primary cell and if secondary serving cell has the same UL/DL
configuration as the primary cell,

\- UE procedure for HARQ-ACK reporting of each secondary cell follows
the procedure of the primary cell.

Throughout this clause,

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space*,*![](media/image1556.wmf) and
![](media/image1557.wmf)otherwise.

\- if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and
for PDSCH transmissions in a subslot, ![](media/image1558.wmf) is
determined based on higher layer parameter proc-Timeline-r15, where

\- ![](media/image1559.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"}= 4 if
*proc-Timeline-r15* is set to \'nplus4set1\'

\- ![](media/image1559.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"}= 6 if
*proc-Timeline-r15* is set to \'nplus6set1\' or \'nplus6set2\'

\- ![](media/image1559.wmf){width="0.25in" height="0.25in"}= 8 if
*proc-Timeline-r15* is set to \'nplus8set2\'

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI*, and the
UE has received slot/subslot-PDSCH without an associated PDCCH/SPDCCH or
with an associated PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G for which slot/subslot-PUCCH
including HARQ-ACK and SR (if any) is to be transmitted on slot/subslot
*s* of subframe *n*,

\- If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai*, the UE shall transmit the
HARQ-ACK corresponding to subframe-PDSCH on the slot/subslot-PUCCH if
the UE has received subframe-PDSCH without an associated PDCCH/SPDCCH or
with an associated PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D
on subframe ![](media/image1560.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}of a serving cell and if the
slot/subslot-PUCCH is the first occurrence of the
slot/subslot-PUCCH/PUSCH in the subframe;

\- If the UE is configured with no more than five serving cells or if
the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc*, the UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK
corresponding to subframe-PDSCH for all serving cells on the
slot/subslot-PUCCH regardless whether the UE has received subframe-PDSCH
without an associated PDCCH/SPDCCH or with an associated PDCCH/EPDCCH
with DCI format 1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D associated with subframe-PDSCH
for any of the serving cell(s) on subframe
![](media/image1560.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}. If the UE has not received
subframe-PDSCH for a serving cell on
subframe![](media/image1561.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, the corresponding HARQ-ACK bit(s) is
NACK;

and

\- ![](media/image1562.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.25in"} for FDD, and
![](media/image1563.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} for TDD where
![](media/image1564.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the
UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and
the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the
UE-specific search space for subframe-PDSCH, and in Table 10.1.3.1-1
otherwise.

\- spatial bundling of the HARQ-ACK corresponding to subframe-PDSCH is
applied if the HARQ-ACK is to be transmitted on

\- subslot *s* or

\- slot *s* and *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *TRUE*.

\- the sequence of HARQ-ACK bit(s) corresponding to subframe-PDSCH
![](media/image1565.wmf){width="1.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}
is determined in Clause 5.2.3.1A of \[4\]

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI*, and the
UE transmits slot/subslot-PUSCH on slot/subslot *s* of subframe *n*
without associated PDCCH/SPDCCH or with associated PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-0A/7-0B and if the UE is not configured with simultaneous PUSCH
and PUCCH transmission,

\- the UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK corresponding to subframe-PDSCH on
the slot/subslot-PUSCH if the UE has received subframe-PDSCH on subframe
![](media/image1560.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}of a serving cell and if the
slot/subslot-PUSCH is the first occurrence of the
slot/subslot-PUCCH/PUSCH in the subframe;

\- if the UE is configured with no more than five serving cells or if
the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc*, the UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK
corresponding to subframe-PDSCH for all serving cells on the
slot/subslot-PUSCH if the UE has received slot/subslot-PDSCH without an
associated PDCCH/SPDCCH or with an associated PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI
format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G for which HARQ-ACK response
shall be provided on slot/subslot *s* of subframe *n*, and

\- if the UE has received subframe-PDSCH without an associated
PDCCH/EPDCCH or with an associated PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D for at least one of the serving cell(s) on
subframe ![](media/image1560.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, or

\- if the UE has not received subframe-PDSCH without an associated
PDCCH/EPDCCH or with an associated PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D for any of the serving cell(s) on subframe
![](media/image1560.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, and if the slot/subslot-PUSCH is the
first occurrence of the slot/subslot-PUCCH/PUSCH in the subframe;

\- the corresponding HARQ-ACK bit(s) is NACK, if the UE has not received
subframe-PDSCH without an associated PDCCH/SPDCCH or with an associated
PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D for a serving
cell(s) on subframe
![](media/image1560.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"};

and

\- ![](media/image1562.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.25in"} for FDD, and
![](media/image1563.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} for TDD where
![](media/image1564.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the
UE is configured with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and
the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the
UE-specific search space for subframe-PDSCH, and in Table 10.1.3.1-1
otherwise.

\- spatial bundling of the HARQ-ACK corresponding to subframe-PDSCH is
applied if the HARQ-ACK is to be transmitted on

\- subslot *s* or

\- slot *s* and *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *TRUE*

\- the sequence of HARQ-ACK bit(s) corresponding to subframe-PDSCH
![](media/image1565.wmf){width="1.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}
is determined in Clause 5.2.2.6 of \[4\].

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*blindSubframePDSCH-Repetitions* for a given serving cell, UE procedure
for HARQ-ACK reporting for the serving cell corresponding to a
PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 1A with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI in
UE-specific search space is given in this clause assuming the
subframe-PDSCH is received in the last subframe of the set of received
*k* DL subframes according to the PDCCH/EPDCCH information as described
in clause 7.1.

If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*blindSlotSubslotPDSCH-Repetitions* for a given serving cell, UE
procedure for HARQ-ACK reporting for the serving cell corresponding to a
PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G with CRC
scrambled by C-RNTI is given in this clause assuming the
slot/subslot-PDSCH is received in the last slot/subslot of the set of
received *k* DL slots/subslots according to the PDCCH/SPDCCH information
as described in clause 7.1.

For a BL/CE UE, if the UE is configured with CEModeA, and if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter ***harq-AckBundling*** in
*ce-PDSCH-MultiTB-Config* and *multiple TB are scheduled* in the
corresponding DCI format 6-1A with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI,

\- for HARQ-ACK transmission associated with the corresponding DCI, the
UE shall generate *M* HARQ-ACK bits by performing a logical AND
operation of HARQ-ACKs across all TBs in each TB bundle $A_{b}$ where
*b* = 1, ..., *M*;

\- the set of TBs that belong to TB bundle $A_{b}$ and the number of TB
bundles *M* are given by Table 7.3-1;

\- the value of is the number of scheduled TB determined in the
corresponding DCI.

Table 7.3-1: Value of $\mathbf{A}_{\mathbf{b}}$ and *M* for different
values of DCI field \'Multi-TB HARQ-ACK bundling size\' and for
different values of number of scheduled transport blocks
$\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{TB}}}$

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DCI      | $$\math  | $$\math  | $$\math  | $$\math  | $$\math  |
| field    | bf{N}_{\ | bf{N}_{\ | bf{N}_{\ | bf{N}_{\ | bf{N}_{\ |
| \'       | mathbf{\ | mathbf{\ | mathbf{\ | mathbf{\ | mathbf{\ |
| Multi-TB | text{TB} | text{TB} | text{TB} | text{TB} | text{TB} |
| H        | }}\mathb | }}\mathb | }}\mathb | }}\mathb | }}\mathb |
| ARQ-ACK\ | f{= 1}$$ | f{= 2}$$ | f{= 4}$$ | f{= 6}$$ | f{= 8}$$ |
| bundling |          |          |          |          |          |
| size\'   |          |          |          |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
| **00**   | $$A_{1}  | $$A      | $$A      | $$A      | $$A      |
|          |  = \{ TB | _{1} = \ | _{1} = \ | _{1} = \ | _{1} = \ |
|          | _{0}\}$$ | left\{ T | left\{ T | left\{ T | left\{ T |
|          |          | B_{0} \r | B_{0} \r | B_{0} \r | B_{0} \r |
|          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | $$A      | $$A      | $$A      | $$A      |
|          |          | _{2} = \ | _{2} = \ | _{2} = \ | _{2} = \ |
|          |          | left\{ T | left\{ T | left\{ T | left\{ T |
|          |          | B_{1} \r | B_{1} \r | B_{1} \r | B_{1} \r |
|          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $$A      | $$A      | $$A      |
|          |          |          | _{3} = \ | _{3} = \ | _{3} = \ |
|          |          |          | left\{ T | left\{ T | left\{ T |
|          |          |          | B_{2} \r | B_{2} \r | B_{2} \r |
|          |          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $$A      | $$A      | $$A      |
|          |          |          | _{4} = \ | _{4} = \ | _{4} = \ |
|          |          |          | left\{ T | left\{ T | left\{ T |
|          |          |          | B_{3} \r | B_{3} \r | B_{3} \r |
|          |          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          | $$A      | $$A      |
|          |          |          |          | _{5} = \ | _{5} = \ |
|          |          |          |          | left\{ T | left\{ T |
|          |          |          |          | B_{4} \r | B_{4} \r |
|          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          | $$A      | $$A      |
|          |          |          |          | _{6} = \ | _{6} = \ |
|          |          |          |          | left\{ T | left\{ T |
|          |          |          |          | B_{5} \r | B_{5} \r |
|          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | $$A      |
|          |          |          |          |          | _{7} = \ |
|          |          |          |          |          | left\{ T |
|          |          |          |          |          | B_{6} \r |
|          |          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | $$A      |
|          |          |          |          |          | _{8} = \ |
|          |          |          |          |          | left\{ T |
|          |          |          |          |          | B_{7} \r |
|          |          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **01**   | \-       | $$A_     | $$A_     | $$A_     | $$A_     |
|          |          | {1} = \l | {1} = \l | {1} = \l | {1} = \l |
|          |          | eft\{ TB | eft\{ TB | eft\{ TB | eft\{ TB |
|          |          | _{0},\ T | _{0},\ T | _{0},\ T | _{0},\ T |
|          |          | B_{1} \r | B_{1} \r | B_{1} \r | B_{1} \r |
|          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $$A_     | $$A_     | $$A_     |
|          |          |          | {2} = \l | {2} = \l | {2} = \l |
|          |          |          | eft\{ TB | eft\{ TB | eft\{ TB |
|          |          |          | _{2},\ T | _{2},\ T | _{2},\ T |
|          |          |          | B_{3} \r | B_{3} \r | B_{3} \r |
|          |          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          | $$A_     | $$A_     |
|          |          |          |          | {3} = \l | {3} = \l |
|          |          |          |          | eft\{ TB | eft\{ TB |
|          |          |          |          | _{4},\ T | _{4},\ T |
|          |          |          |          | B_{5} \r | B_{5} \r |
|          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | $$A_     |
|          |          |          |          |          | {4} = \l |
|          |          |          |          |          | eft\{ TB |
|          |          |          |          |          | _{6},\ T |
|          |          |          |          |          | B_{7} \r |
|          |          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **10**   | \-       | \-       | $$A_     | $$A      | $$A      |
|          |          |          | {1} = \l | _{1} = \ | _{1} = \ |
|          |          |          | eft\{ TB | left\{ T | left\{ T |
|          |          |          | _{0},\ T | B_{0},\  | B_{0},\  |
|          |          |          | B_{1} \r | TB_{1},T | TB_{1},T |
|          |          |          | ight\}$$ | B_{2} \r | B_{2} \r |
|          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          | $$A      |          |          |
|          |          |          | _{2} = \ | $$A      | $$A      |
|          |          |          | left\{ T | _{2} = \ | _{2} = \ |
|          |          |          | B_{2} \r | left\{ T | left\{ T |
|          |          |          | ight\}$$ | B_{3},\  | B_{3},\  |
|          |          |          |          | TB_{4},T | TB_{4},T |
|          |          |          | $$A      | B_{5} \r | B_{5} \r |
|          |          |          | _{3} = \ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          | left\{ T |          |          |
|          |          |          | B_{3} \r |          | $$A_     |
|          |          |          | ight\}$$ |          | {3} = \l |
|          |          |          |          |          | eft\{ TB |
|          |          |          |          |          | _{6},\ T |
|          |          |          |          |          | B_{7} \r |
|          |          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **11**   | \-       | \-       | $$A_     | $$       | $$       |
|          |          |          | {1} = \l | A_{1} =  | A_{1} =  |
|          |          |          | eft\{ TB | \left\{  | \left\{  |
|          |          |          | _{0},\ T | TB_{0},\ | TB_{0},\ |
|          |          |          | B_{1},TB |  TB_{1}, |  TB_{1}, |
|          |          |          | _{2},\ T | TB_{2},T | TB_{2},T |
|          |          |          | B_{3} \r | B_{3} \r | B_{3} \r |
|          |          |          | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ | ight\}$$ |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          | $$A_     | $$       |
|          |          |          |          | {2} = \l | A_{2} =  |
|          |          |          |          | eft\{ TB | \left\{  |
|          |          |          |          | _{4},\ T | TB_{4},\ |
|          |          |          |          | B_{5} \r |  TB_{5}, |
|          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ | TB_{6},T |
|          |          |          |          |          | B_{7} \r |
|          |          |          |          |          | ight\}$$ |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

### 7.3.1 FDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure

For FDD with PUCCH format 1a/1b transmission, when both HARQ-ACK and SR
are transmitted in the same sub-frame/slot, a UE shall transmit the
HARQ-ACK on its assigned HARQ-ACK PUCCH format 1a/1b resource for a
negative SR transmission and transmit the HARQ-ACK on its assigned SR
PUCCH resource for a positive SR transmission.

For FDD with PUCCH format 1a transmission, when both HARQ-ACK and SR are
transmitted in the same subslot, a UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK bit
according to Table 7.3.1-0A;

> Table 7.3.1-0A: PUCCH format 1a resource for transmission of HARQ-ACK
> bit and SR

  HARQ-ACK   SR transmission   Resource for HARQ-ACK bits transmission
  ---------- ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------
  ACK/NACK   negative          HARQ-ACK PUCCH format 1a resource
  NACK       positive          The first SR PUCCH resource value configured by the higher layers
  ACK        positive          The second SR PUCCH resource value configured by the higher layers

for FDD with PUCCH format 1b transmission, when both HARQ-ACK and SR are
transmitted in the same subslot, a UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK bits
according to Table 7.3.1-0B;

Table 7.3.1-0B: PUCCH format 1b resource for transmission of HARQ-ACK
bits

  HARQ-ACK(0)   HARQ-ACK(1)   SR transmission   Resource for HARQ-ACK bits transmission
  ------------- ------------- ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------
  ACK/NACK      ACK/NACK      negative          HARQ-ACK PUCCH format 1b resource
  NACK          NACK          positive          The first SR PUCCH resource value configured by the higher layers
  ACK           NACK          positive          The second SR PUCCH resource value configured by the higher layers
  NACK          ACK           positive          The third SR PUCCH resource value configured by the higher layers
  ACK           ACK           positive          The fourth SR PUCCH resource value configured by the higher layers

where SR PUCCH resources are configured by higher layer parameter
*sr-SubslotSPUCCH-Resource*, and HARQ-ACK(*j*), *j=0, 1* denotes the
ACK/NACK response for a transport block or SPS release
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH associated with serving cell *c*.

For FDD with PUCCH format 1b with channel selection, when both HARQ-ACK
and SR are transmitted in the same sub-frame a UE shall transmit the
HARQ-ACK on its assigned HARQ-ACK PUCCH resource with channel selection
as defined in Clause 10.1.2.2.1 for a negative SR transmission and
transmit one HARQ-ACK bit per serving cell on its assigned SR PUCCH
resource for a positive SR transmission according to the following:

-   if only one transport block or a PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink
    SPS release is detected on a serving cell, the HARQ-ACK bit for the
    serving cell is the HARQ-ACK bit corresponding to the transport
    block or the PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release;

-   if two transport blocks are received on a serving cell, the HARQ-ACK
    bit for the serving cell is generated by spatially bundling the
    HARQ-ACK bits corresponding to the transport blocks;

-   if neither PDSCH transmission for which HARQ-ACK response shall be
    provided nor PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release is
    detected for a serving cell, the HARQ-ACK bit for the serving cell
    is set to NACK;

and the HARQ-ACK bits for the primary cell and the secondary cell are
mapped to ![](media/image1566.wmf){width="0.2604166666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} and
![](media/image1567.wmf){width="0.22916666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, respectively, where
![](media/image1566.wmf){width="0.2604166666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} and
![](media/image1567.wmf){width="0.22916666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} are specified in Clause 5.4.1 in \[3\].

For FDD, when a PUCCH format 3/4/5 transmission of HARQ-ACK coincides
with *a subframe/slot/subslot configured to the UE by higher layers for
transmission of a scheduling request*, the UE shall multiplex HARQ-ACK
and SR bits on HARQ-ACK PUCCH resource as defined in Clause 5.2.3.1 in
\[4\], unless the HARQ-ACK corresponds to a subframe-PDSCH transmission
on the primary cell only or a PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release on the primary cell only, in which case the SR shall be
transmitted as for FDD with PUCCH format 1a/1b.

For a non-BL/CE UE for FDD and for a PUSCH transmission, a UE shall not
transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH in subframe/slot/subslot *n* if the UE does
not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in

\- subframe *n-*![](media/image1568.wmf) for subframe-PDSCH or in
subframe ![](media/image1569.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} for PDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release

\- slot *n-4* for slot-PDSCH

\- subslot ![](media/image1570.wmf)for subslot-SPDSCH if the higher
layer parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'subslot\'

\- any of the subslot numbers listed in Table 10.1-1 if the higher layer
parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'slot\' and slot-PUSCH is
transmitted in subframe
![](media/image1571.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}

For a BL/CE UE, for FDD and for a PUSCH transmission scheduled by an
MPDCCH where the last transmission of the MPDCCH is in subframe *n-4*, a
UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH in subframe *n* if there is no
PDSCH or MPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release transmitted to the UE in
subframe *n-4* where the last transmission of the PDSCH or MPDCCH
indicating downlink SPS release is in subframe *n-4*.

When only a positive SR is transmitted using subframe-PUCCH, a UE shall
use PUCCH Format 1 for the SR resource as defined in Clause 5.4.1 in
\[3\].

When only a positive SR is transmitted using slot/subslot-PUCCH, a UE
shall use PUCCH Format 1 for the first SR resource configured by higher
layers as defined in Clause 5.4A.2 in \[3\].

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* and PDSCH is associated with DCI
format 1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D, the following HARQ-ACK reporting
procedure applies to subframe-PDSCH operation. If a UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*
and PDSCH is associated with DCI format 7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1F/7-1G,
the following HARQ-ACK reporting procedure applies to slot/subslot-PDSCH
operation.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*, for FDD and a
subframe/subslot *n*, the value of the counter Downlink Assignment
Indicator (DAI) in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1F/7-1G denotes the
accumulative number of {serving cell, subframe/slot/subslot}-pair(s)
with PDSCH transmission(s) associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH and
serving cell with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release,
up to the present serving cell and present subframe/slot/subslot, first
in increasing order of serving cell index and then in increasing order
of subframe/slot/subslot index; the value of the total DAI in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G denotes the
total number of {serving cell, subframe/slot/subslot}-pair(s) with PDSCH
transmission(s) associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH (s) and serving cell
with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release. Denote
![](media/image1572.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.25in"}
as the value of the counter DAI in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1F/7-1G scheduling PDSCH
transmission or indicating downlink SPS release for serving cell *c* in
subframe/slot/subslot *s* within the set of
subframe(s)/slot(s)/subslot(s) for which HARQ-ACK response shall be
provided in subframe/slot/subslot *n*, according to table 7.3.1-1.
Denote ![](media/image1573.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.25in"} as the
value of the total DAI, according to Table 7.3.1-1. The UE shall assume
a same value of total DAI in all PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH scheduling PDSCH
transmission(s) and PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
in a subframe/slot/subslot.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai* and if the UE transmits
HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format 3 or PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5 in
subframe/slot/subslot *n*, the UE shall determine the
![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the following pseudo-code:

Set *c = 0* -- cell index: lower indices correspond to lower RRC indices
of corresponding cell

Set *s = 0*

Set *j = 0*

Set ![](media/image1575.wmf)

Set ![](media/image1576.wmf)

Set ![](media/image1577.wmf) to the number of cells configured by higher
layers for the UE

Set *S* = 3 for subslot PDSCH operation with higher layer parameter
*dl-TTI-Length=*\'*subslot*\' and *ul-TTI-Length=*\'*slot*\'; *S* = 2
for subframe-PDSCH operation with the higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* configured; 1 otherwise

while s \< *S*

while *c* \< ![](media/image1578.wmf){width="0.34375in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}

if there is a PDSCH on serving cell *c* associated with
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH or there is a PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release on serving cell *c* for which HARQ-ACK is
transmitted in subframe/slot/subslot *n*, or

if ![](media/image1579.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}

![](media/image1580.wmf){width="1.8333333333333333in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"}

end if

if ![](media/image1581.wmf){width="1.0833333333333333in"
height="0.25in"}

j = j+1

end if

![](media/image1582.wmf){width="1.0833333333333333in" height="0.25in"}

if the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *FALSE* and
the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two transport
blocks in at least one configured serving cell and HARQ-ACK is not to be
transmitted on subslot-PUCCH,

![](media/image1583.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit corresponding to the first
codeword of this cell

![](media/image1584.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit corresponding to the second
codeword of this cell

![](media/image1585.wmf)

elseif the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *TRUE*
and the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two
transport blocks in at least one configured serving cell or HARQ-ACK is
to be transmitted on subslot-PUCCH,

![](media/image1586.wmf) = binary AND operation of the HARQ-ACK bits
corresponding to the first and second codewords of this cell

![](media/image1587.wmf)

else

![](media/image1588.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit for subframe/slot/subslot s of
this cell.

![](media/image1589.wmf)

end if

end if

*c* = *c* + 1

end while

s = s + 1

end while

if ![](media/image1590.wmf){width="1.0in" height="0.25in"}

j = j+1

end if

if the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *FALSE* and
the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two transport
blocks in at least one configured serving cell and HARQ-ACK is not to be
transmitted on subslot-PUCCH,

![](media/image1591.wmf){width="1.75in" height="0.3333333333333333in"}

else

![](media/image1592.wmf){width="1.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}

end if

![](media/image1593.wmf) for any ![](media/image1594.wmf)

if SPS PDSCH transmission is activated for a UE and the UE is configured
to receive SPS PDSCH in subframe/slot
![](media/image1595.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} or in subslot
![](media/image1596.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.25in"}

![](media/image1597.wmf)

![](media/image1598.wmf)= HARQ-ACK bit associated with the SPS PDSCH
transmission

end if

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*, if the UE transmits HARQ-ACK
on PUSCH in a subframe/slot/subslot, the UE shall determine the
![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the above procedure as if the UE
transmits HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format 3 or PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH
format 5, except that the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH*
is replaced by *spatialBundlingPUSCH*.

Table 7.3.1-1: Value of counter DAI and total DAI

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DAI\       ![](media/image1599.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.25in"} or![](media/image1600.wmf)   Number of serving cells with PDSCH transmission associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH and serving cell with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating DL SPS release
  MSB, LSB                                                                                                       
  ---------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0,0        1                                                                                                   1 or 5 or 9 or 13 or 17 or 21 or 25 or 29

  0,1        2                                                                                                   2 or 6 or 10 or 14 or 18 or 22 or 26 or 30

  1,0        3                                                                                                   3 or 7 or 11 or 15 or 19 or 23 or 27 or 31

  1,1        4                                                                                                   0 or 4 or 8 or 12 or 16 or 20 or 24 or 28 or 32
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc* and if the UE transmits
HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5 in subframe/slot/subslot
*n*, the UE shall determine the ![](media/image1574.wmf) according to
the pseudo-code in Clause 5.2.3.1 for subframe-PUCCH transmission and
Clause 5.2.3.1A for slot/subslot-PUCCH transmission in \[4\].

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc*, if the UE transmits HARQ-ACK
on PUSCH in a subframe/slot/subslot, the UE shall determine the
![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the pseudo-code in Clause 5.2.2.6
in \[4\].

For a BL/CE UE, for PDSCH transmission in subframe *n-k*, if the UE is
in half-duplex FDD operation and is configured with CEModeA and higher
layer parameter *ce-HARQ-AckBundling* and the \'HARQ-ACK bundling flag\'
in the corresponding DCI is set to 1, or if the UE is configured with
higher layer parameter *ce-SchedulingEnhancement,*

\- if the \'HARQ-ACK delay\' field in the corresponding DCI indicates
value *k*, the UE shall determine the subframe *n* as the HARQ-ACK
transmission subframe.

\- the HARQ-ACK delay value *k* is determined from the corresponding DCI
based on the higher layer parameters according to Table 7.3.1-2.

For a BL/CE UE in half-duplex FDD operation, if the UE is configured
with CEModeA, and if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-HARQ-AckBundling* and the \'HARQ-ACK bundling flag\' in the
corresponding DCI is set to 1,

\- for HARQ-ACK transmission in subframe *n*, the UE shall generate one
HARQ-ACK bit by performing a logical AND operation of HARQ-ACKs across
all ![](media/image1601.wmf) BL/CE DL subframes for which subframe *n*
is the \'HARQ-ACK transmission subframe\'.

\- if subframe *n-k~1~* is the most recent subframe for which subframe
*n* is the \'HARQ-ACK transmission subframe\', and if the \'Transport
blocks in a bundle\' field in the corresponding DCI for PDSCH
transmission in subframe *n-k~1~* indicates a number of transport blocks
in a bundle other than ![](media/image1602.wmf), the UE shall generate a
NACK for HARQ-ACK transmission in subframe *n*.

> \- if the UE has received *W* PDSCH transmissions before subframe *n*,
> and if the UE is expected to transmit HARQ-ACK for the *W* PDSCH
> transmissions in subframes ![](media/image1603.wmf), the UE is not
> expected to receive a new PDSCH transmission in subframe *n*, where
> *W*=10 if higher layer parameter *ce-pdsch-tenProcesses-config* is set
> to \'*On*\', and *W*=8 otherwise.
>
> \- if the UE is expected to transmit HARQ-ACK for the PDSCH
> transmissions received before subframe *n* in subframes
> ![](media/image1604.wmf), the UE is not expected to receive a new
> PDSCH transmission in subframe *n* for which the HARQ-ACK is to be
> transmitted in subframe ![](media/image1605.wmf)

Table 7.3.1-2: HARQ-ACK delay for BL/CE UE in CEModeA

  \'HARQ-ACK delay\' field in DCI   HARQ-ACK delay value when *\'ce-SchedulingEnhancement\' set to \'range1\'*   HARQ-ACK delay value when *\'ce-SchedulingEnhancement\' set to \'range2\', or \'ce-SchedulingEnhancement\' is not configured and* *\'ce-HARQ-AckBundling\'* is set
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  000                               4                                                                            4
  001                               5                                                                            5
  010                               7                                                                            6
  011                               9                                                                            7
  100                               11                                                                           8
  101                               13                                                                           9
  110                               15                                                                           10
  111                               17                                                                           11

### 7.3.2 TDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure

For TDD and a UE not configured with the parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for any serving cell, if the UE is
configured with one serving cell, or if the UE is configured with more
than one serving cell and the TDD UL/DL configuration of all the
configured serving cells is the same, UE procedure for reporting
HARQ-ACK is given in Clause 7.3.2.1.

For TDD, if a UE is configured with more than one serving cell and the
TDD UL/DL configuration of at least two configured serving cells is not
the same, or if the UE is configured with the parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for at least one serving cell, UE
procedure for reporting HARQ-ACK is given in Clause 7.3.2.2.

When only a positive SR is transmitted, a UE shall use subframe-PUCCH
Format 1 for the SR resource as defined in Clause 5.4.1 in \[3\].

When only a positive SR is transmitted using slot-PUCCH, a UE shall use
PUCCH Format 1 for the first SR resource configured by higher layers as
defined in Clause 5.4A.2 in \[3\].

#### 7.3.2.1 TDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure for same UL/DL configuration

Unless otherwise stated, the procedure in this clause applies to
non-BL/CE UEs.

For TDD, the UE shall upon detection of a PDSCH transmission or a
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in Clause
9.2) within subframe/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}, intended for the UE and for which HARQ-ACK response
shall be provided, transmit the HARQ-ACK response in UL subframe/slot
*n* and ![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} is defined in

\- Table 10.1.3.1-1E if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* for slot-PDSCH and special subframe configuration 0, 5, 9,
and 10,

\- Table 10.1.3.1-1D if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* for special subframe configuration 3, 4, and 8,

\- Table 10.1.3.1-1C if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* for slot-PDSCH and special subframe configuration 1, 2, 6, 7,

\- Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for subframe-based PDSCH and

\- Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise.

For TDD, when PUCCH format 3/4/5 is configured for transmission of
HARQ-ACK,

\- for special subframe configurations 0, 5 and 10 if configured by
*ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS* with normal downlink CP or configurations 0 and 4
with extended downlink CP in a serving cell, shown in table 4.2-1 \[3\],
the special subframe of the serving cell is excluded from the HARQ-ACK
codebook size determination. In this case, if the serving cell is the
primary cell, there is no PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
in the special subframe.

\- for special subframe configurations 1, 2, 6, and 7 and slot-PDSCH,
the second slot of DwPTS of the serving cell is excluded from the
HARQ-ACK codebook size determination. In this case, if the serving cell
is the primary cell, there is no PDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release in the second slot of DwPTS.

For TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6 and one configured serving cell, if the
UE is not configured with PUCCH format 3, the value of the Downlink
Assignment Index (DAI) in DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B,
![](media/image1609.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}, detected by the UE according to Table
7.3-X in subframe/slot ![](media/image1610.wmf){width="0.40625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}, where
![](media/image1611.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} is defined in

\- Table 7.3-Y4 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* and for special subframe configuration 3, 4, 8 for
slot-PDSCH,

\- Table 7.3-Y3 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* and for special subframe configuration 0, 5, 9, 10 for
slot-PDSCH,

\- Table 7.3-Y2 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* and for special subframe configuration 1,2,6,7 for
slot-PDSCH,

\- Table 7.3-Y1 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for subframe-PDSCH,

\- Table 7.3-Y otherwise,

represents the total number of subframes/slots with PDSCH transmissions
and with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release to the
corresponding UE within all the subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"},
where![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}. The
value ![](media/image1612.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} includes all PDSCH transmission with and
without corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH within all the
subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}. In case neither PDSCH transmission, nor
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating the downlink SPS resource release is
intended to the UE, the UE can expect that the value of the DAI in DCI
format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B,
![](media/image1609.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}, if transmitted, is set to 4.

For TDD UL/DL configuration 1-6 and a UE configured with more than one
serving cell, or for TDD UL/DL configuration 1-6 and a UE configured
with one serving cell and PUCCH format 3, a value
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}is determined by the Downlink Assignment
Index (DAI) in DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B according to Table 7.3-Z in
subframe/slot ![](media/image1610.wmf){width="0.40625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}, where
![](media/image1611.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} is defined in

\- Table 7.3-Y4 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* and for special subframe configuration 3, 4, 8 for
slot-PDSCH,

\- Table 7.3-Y3 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* and for special subframe configuration 0, 5, 9, 10 for
slot-PDSCH,

\- Table 7.3-Y2 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* and for special subframe configuration 1, 2, 6, 7 for
slot-PDSCH,

\- Table 7.3-Y1 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for subframe-PDSCH,

\- Table 7.3-Y otherwise.

In case neither PDSCH transmission, nor PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating
the downlink SPS resource release is intended to the UE, the UE can
expect that the value of
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} is set to 4 by the DAI in DCI format
0/4/7-0A/7-0B if transmitted.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and not
configured with higher layer parameter *codebooksizeDetermination-r13 =
dai* or is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and not
configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*, for TDD UL/DL configurations
1-6, the value of the DAI in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G denotes the
accumulative number of PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH (s) with assigned PDSCH
transmission(s) and PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
up to the present subframe/slot within subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} of each
configured serving cell, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}, and shall be updated from subframe/slot to
subframe/slot. Denote
![](media/image1614.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} as the value of the DAI in
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G detected by
the UE according to Table 7.3-X in subframe/slot
![](media/image1615.wmf){width="0.4375in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}
in serving cell ![](media/image1616.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"}, where
![](media/image1617.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} is the smallest value in the set
![](media/image1618.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.1875in"} (defined in
Table10.1.3.1-1D if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* and special subframe configuration 3, 4, 8 for slot-PDSCH, in
Table 10.1.3.1-1C if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortTTI* and special subframe configuration 0, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10
for slot-PDSCH, in Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with
CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for
subframe-PDSCH and in Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise) such that the UE
detects a DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G. When
configured with one serving cell, the subscript of
![](media/image1616.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"} in
![](media/image1619.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} can be omitted.

For all TDD UL/DL configurations, denote
![](media/image1620.wmf){width="0.4375in" height="0.21875in"} as the
total number of PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH (s) with assigned PDSCH
transmission(s) and PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
detected by the UE within the subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} in serving
cell ![](media/image1616.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}. When
configured with one serving cell, the subscript of
![](media/image1616.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"} in
![](media/image1621.wmf){width="0.4375in" height="0.21875in"} can be
omitted. Denote ![](media/image1622.wmf){width="0.34375in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}, which can be zero or one, as the number
of PDSCH transmissions without a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH
within the subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}.

For TDD HARQ-ACK bundling or HARQ-ACK multiplexing and a subframe/slot
![](media/image1623.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in" height="0.125in"}
with ![](media/image1624.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.15625in"}, the
UE shall generate one or two HARQ-ACK bits by performing a logical AND
operation per codeword across ![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.15625in"} subframe(s)/slot(s) downlink and special subframes
associated with a single UL subframe/slot, of all the corresponding
![](media/image1626.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} individual PDSCH transmission HARQ-ACKs
and individual ACK in response to received PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH
indicating downlink SPS release, where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"} is the
number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} defined in Table10.1.3.1-1D if the UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and special subframe
configuration 3, 4, 8 for slot-PDSCH, in Table 10.1.3.1-1C if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* and special subframe
configuration 0, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 for slot-PDSCH, in Table
10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for subframe-PDSCH and in
Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise. The UE shall detect if at least one downlink
assignment has been missed, and for the case that the UE is transmitting
on PUSCH the UE shall also determine the
parameter![](media/image1627.wmf){width="0.5in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}.

-   For TDD UL/DL configuration 0,
    ![](media/image1627.wmf){width="0.5in"
    height="0.2708333333333333in"} shall be 1 if the UE detects the
    PDSCH transmission with or without corresponding
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH, or detects PDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
    release within the subframe/slot
    ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
    ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}. The UE
    shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the UE does not receive
    PDSCH or PDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release within the
    subframe(s)/slot (s)
    ![](media/image1628.wmf){width="0.3854166666666667in"
    height="0.19791666666666666in"}, where
    ![](media/image1629.wmf){width="0.4375in"
    height="0.19791666666666666in"}.

-   For the case that the UE is not transmitting on PUSCH in
    subframe/slot *n* and TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6, if
    ![](media/image1630.wmf){width="0.625in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"} and
    ![](media/image1631.wmf){width="1.7291666666666667in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"}, the UE detects that at least one
    downlink assignment has been missed.

-   For the case that the UE is transmitting on PUSCH and the PUSCH
    transmission is performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH
    with DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B intended for the UE and TDD UL/DL
    configurations 1-6, if ![](media/image1632.wmf){width="2.21875in"
    height="0.2708333333333333in"} the UE detects that at least one
    downlink assignment has been missed and the UE shall generate NACK
    for all codewords where ![](media/image1627.wmf){width="0.5in"
    height="0.2708333333333333in"} is determined by the UE as
    ![](media/image1633.wmf){width="1.2083333333333333in"
    height="0.2708333333333333in"}. If the UE does not detect any
    downlink assignment missing, ![](media/image1627.wmf){width="0.5in"
    height="0.2708333333333333in"} is determined by the UE as
    ![](media/image1634.wmf){width="0.9375in"
    height="0.2708333333333333in"}. UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK if
    ![](media/image1635.wmf){width="1.1145833333333333in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"}and
    ![](media/image1636.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"}.

-   For the case that the UE is transmitting on PUSCH, and the PUSCH
    transmission is not based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI
    format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B intended for the UE and TDD UL/DL
    configurations 1-6, if ![](media/image1637.wmf){width="0.625in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"} and
    ![](media/image1638.wmf){width="1.7291666666666667in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"}, the UE detects that at least one
    downlink assignment has been missed and the UE shall generate NACK
    for all codewords. The UE determines
    ![](media/image1639.wmf){width="1.6145833333333333in"
    height="0.2708333333333333in"} as the number of assigned
    subframes/slots. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK if
    ![](media/image1640.wmf){width="1.1145833333333333in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"}.

For TDD, when PUCCH format 3 is configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK
without PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5 configured for transmission of
HARQ-ACK, the HARQ-ACK feedback bits
![](media/image1641.wmf){width="1.4791666666666667in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"} for the *c*-th serving cell configured by
RRC are constructed as follows, where *c*≥0,
![](media/image1642.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} if transmission mode configured in the
*c*-th serving cell supports one transport block or spatial HARQ-ACK
bundling is applied and
![](media/image1643.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}otherwise,
where![](media/image1644.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} is the number of subframes/slots in
downlink and special subframes for which the UE needs to feedback
HARQ-ACK bits for the *c*-th serving cell.

\- For subframe-PDSCH and the case that the UE is transmitting on PUCCH,
![](media/image1645.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"} is the
number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding
PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space
for subframe-PDSCH and in Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise; associated with
subframe/slot *n* and the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} does not include a special subframe of
configurations 0,5 and 10 if configured by *ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS* with
normal downlink CP or of configurations 0 and 4 with extended downlink
CP; otherwise ![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.84375in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}.

\- For slot-PDSCH, special subframe configuration 0, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9,
10, and the case that the UE is transmitting on PUCCH,
![](media/image1645.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.18958333333333333in"
height="0.15902777777777777in"} is the number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15902777777777777in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1C; associated
with slot *n* and the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15902777777777777in"} does not include a slot in a special
subframe of configurations 0 and 5 with normal downlink CP or of
configurations 0 and 4 with extended downlink CP; otherwise
![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.8409722222222222in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"}.

\- For slot-PDSCH, special subframe configuration 3, 4, 8, and the case
that the UE is transmitting on PUCCH,
![](media/image1645.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.18958333333333333in"
height="0.15902777777777777in"} is the number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15902777777777777in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1D; associated
with slot *n* and the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15902777777777777in"} does not include a slot in a special
subframe of configurations 0 and 5 with normal downlink CP or of
configurations 0 and 4 with extended downlink CP; otherwise
![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.8409722222222222in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"}.

\- For subframe-PDSCH, and TDD UL/DL configuration 0 or for a PUSCH
transmission not performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI
format 0/4, the UE shall assume ![](media/image1647.wmf){width="0.625in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"} is the
number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding
PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space
for subframe-PDSCH and in Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise; associated with
subframe *n* and the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} does not include a special subframe of
configurations 0, 5 and 10 if configured by *ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS* with
normal downlink CP or of configurations 0 and 4 with extended downlink
CP; otherwise ![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.84375in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release in subframe(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}.

\- For slot-PDSCH, special subframe configuration 0, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9,
10, and TDD UL/DL configuration 0 or for a PUSCH transmission not
performed based on a detected PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B,
the UE shall assume
![](media/image1647.wmf){width="0.6284722222222222in"
height="0.25763888888888886in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.18194444444444444in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} is the number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1C associated
with slot *n* and the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} does not include a slot in a special
subframe of configurations 0 and 5 with normal downlink CP; otherwise
![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.8486111111111111in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/SPDSCH indicating
downlink SPS release in
slot(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3104166666666667in"
height="0.18194444444444444in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.3784722222222222in"
height="0.18194444444444444in"}.

\- For slot-PDSCH, special subframe configuration 3, 4, 8, and TDD UL/DL
configuration 0 or for a PUSCH transmission not performed based on a
detected PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B, the UE shall assume
![](media/image1647.wmf){width="0.6284722222222222in"
height="0.25763888888888886in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.18194444444444444in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} is the number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1D associated
with slot *n*. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the UE
does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/ SPDSCH indicating downlink SPS release
in slot(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3104166666666667in"
height="0.18194444444444444in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.3784722222222222in"
height="0.18194444444444444in"}.

\- For TDD UL/DL configurations {1, 2, 3, 4, 6} and a PUSCH transmission
performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format
0/4/7-0A/7-0B, the UE shall assume
![](media/image1648.wmf){width="0.7604166666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release in subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"} and
![](media/image1649.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}.

\- For TDD UL/DL configurations 5 and a PUSCH transmission performed
based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B,
the UE shall assume
![](media/image1650.wmf){width="2.0833333333333335in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"}, where
![](media/image1651.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}denotes the maximum value of
![](media/image1652.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} among all the configured serving
cells,![](media/image1652.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} is the total number of received PDSCHs
and PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} on the *c*-th serving
cell,![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}. The UE
shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"} and
![](media/image1649.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}.

For TDD, when PUCCH format 4/5 is configured for transmission of
HARQ-ACK and if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc*, the HARQ-ACK feedback bits
![](media/image1641.wmf){width="1.4791666666666667in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"} for the *c*-th serving cell configured by
RRC are constructed as follows, where *c*≥0,
![](media/image1642.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} if transmission mode configured in the
*c*-th serving cell supports one transport block or spatial HARQ-ACK
bundling is applied or for slot-PDSCH and
![](media/image1643.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}otherwise,
where![](media/image1644.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} is the number of subframs/slots in
downlink and special subframes for which the UE needs to feedback
HARQ-ACK bits for the *c*-th serving cell.

\- For subframe-PDSCH and the case that the UE is transmitting on PUCCH,
![](media/image1645.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"} is the
number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding
PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space
for subframe-PDSCH and in Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise; associated with
subframe *n* and the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} does not include a special subframe of
configurations 0, 5 and 10 if configured by *ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS* with
normal downlink CP or of configurations 0 and 4 with extended downlink
CP; otherwise ![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.84375in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}.

\- For slot-PDSCH, special subframe configuration 0, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9,
10 and the case that the UE is transmitting on PUCCH,
![](media/image1645.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.18194444444444444in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} is the number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1C associated
with slot *n* and the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} does not include a slot in a special
subframe of configurations 0 and 5 with normal downlink CP; otherwise
![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.8486111111111111in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"}.

\- For slot-PDSCH, special subframe configuration 3, 4, 8, and the case
that the UE is transmitting on PUCCH,
![](media/image1645.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.18194444444444444in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} is the number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1D associated
with slot *n*.

\- For subframe-PDSCH and the case that UE is transmitting on PUSCH not
performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 or on
PUSCH adjusted based on an associated detected DCI format 0/4, the UE
shall assume ![](media/image1647.wmf){width="0.625in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"} is the
number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1 associated with subframe
*n* and the set ![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} does not include a special subframe of
configurations 0, 5 and 10 if configured by *ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS* with
normal downlink CP or of configurations 0 and 4 with extended downlink
CP; otherwise ![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.84375in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"},
where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}.

\- For slot-PDSCH, special subframe configuration 0, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9,
10, and the case that UE is transmitting on PUSCH not performed based on
a detected PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B, the UE shall assume
![](media/image1647.wmf){width="0.6284722222222222in"
height="0.25763888888888886in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.18194444444444444in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} is the number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1C associated
with slot *n* and the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} does not include a slot in a special
subframe of configurations 0 and 5 with normal downlink CP; otherwise
![](media/image1646.wmf){width="0.8486111111111111in"
height="0.2652777777777778in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/ SPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release in
slot(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3104166666666667in"
height="0.18194444444444444in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.3784722222222222in"
height="0.18194444444444444in"}.

\- For slot-PDSCH, special subframe configuration 3, 4, 8, and the case
that UE is transmitting on PUSCH not performed based on a detected
PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7-0A/7-0B, the UE shall assume
![](media/image1647.wmf){width="0.6284722222222222in"
height="0.25763888888888886in"} where
![](media/image1625.wmf){width="0.18194444444444444in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} is the number of elements in the set
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.15902777777777777in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1D associated
with slot *n*. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the UE
does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
in slot(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3104166666666667in"
height="0.18194444444444444in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.3784722222222222in"
height="0.18194444444444444in"}.

For TDD, when PUCCH format 3/4/5 is configured for transmission of
HARQ-ACK and if the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* for subframe-PDSCH or
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai* for slot-PDSCH,

-   for TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6, the HARQ-ACK for a PDSCH
    transmission with a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH or for a
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in subframe/slot
    ![](media/image1653.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
    height="0.16666666666666666in"} is associated with
    ![](media/image1654.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
    height="0.28125in"} if transmission mode configured in the *c*-th
    serving cell supports one transport block or spatial HARQ-ACK
    bundling is applied or for slot-PDSCH, or associated with
    ![](media/image1655.wmf){width="0.7604166666666666in"
    height="0.28125in"} and ![](media/image1656.wmf){width="0.71875in"
    height="0.28125in"} otherwise, where *DAI(k)* is the value of DAI in
    DCI format
    1A/1B/1D/1/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G detected
    in subframe/slot
    ![](media/image1657.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
    height="0.16666666666666666in"},
    ![](media/image1658.wmf){width="0.7604166666666666in"
    height="0.28125in"} and ![](media/image1659.wmf){width="0.71875in"
    height="0.28125in"} are the HARQ-ACK feedback for codeword 0 and
    codeword 1, respectively. For the case with
    ![](media/image1660.wmf){width="0.5729166666666666in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}, the HARQ-ACK associated with a
    PDSCH transmission without a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH is
    mapped to ![](media/image1661.wmf){width="0.59375in"
    height="0.3333333333333333in"} The HARQ-ACK feedback bits without
    any detected PDSCH transmission or without detected
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release are set to NACK;

> \- for TDD UL/DL configuration 0, the HARQ-ACK for a PDSCH
> transmission or for a PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
> release in subframe/slot
> ![](media/image1653.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
> height="0.16666666666666666in"} is associated with
> ![](media/image1662.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"} if
> transmission mode configured in the *c*-th serving cell supports one
> transport block or associated with
> ![](media/image1663.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"} and
> ![](media/image1664.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"}
> otherwise, where ![](media/image1663.wmf){width="0.34375in"
> height="0.28125in"} and ![](media/image1664.wmf){width="0.34375in"
> height="0.28125in"} are the HARQ-ACK feedback for codeword 0 and
> codeword 1, respectively. The HARQ-ACK feedback bits without any
> detected PDSCH transmission or without detected PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH
> indicating downlink SPS release are set to NACK.

For TDD when format 1b with channel selection is configured for
transmission of HARQ-ACK and for 2 configured serving cells, the
HARQ-ACK feedback bits ![](media/image1665.wmf){width="1.375in"
height="0.3125in"}on PUSCH are constructed as follows.

\- For TDD UL/DL configuration 0,
![](media/image1666.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"}=
HARQ-ACK(*j*), ![](media/image1667.wmf){width="0.71875in"
height="0.1875in"} as defined in Clause 10.1.3.2.1. The UE shall not
transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or
PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}
where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}.

\- For TDD UL/DL configurations {1, 2, 3, 4, 6} and a PUSCH transmission
performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 with
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}=1 or 2,
![](media/image1668.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"} is
determined as if PUCCH format 3 is configured for transmission of
HARQ-ACK, except that spatial HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple
codewords within a downlink or special subframe is performed for all
serving cells configured with a downlink transmission mode that supports
up to two transport blocks in case
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}=2.

\- For TDD UL/DL configurations {1, 2, 3, 4, 6} and a PUSCH transmission
performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 with
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}=3 or 4,
![](media/image1669.wmf){width="0.8125in" height="0.28125in"},
![](media/image1670.wmf){width="0.53125in" height="0.1875in"}as defined
in Table 10.1.3.2-5 or in Table 10.1.3.2-6 respectively, where the value
of ![](media/image1671.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.125in"}is replaced by
![](media/image1672.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}
where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"} and
![](media/image1649.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}.

\- For TDD UL/DL configurations {1, 2, 3, 4, 6} and a PUSCH transmission
not performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 and a
subframe ![](media/image1623.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in"
height="0.125in"} with ![](media/image1673.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.15625in"}=1 or 2, ![](media/image1668.wmf){width="0.34375in"
height="0.28125in"}= HARQ-ACK(*j*),
![](media/image1667.wmf){width="0.71875in" height="0.1875in"} as defined
in Clause 10.1.3.2.1. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the
UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release in subframe(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}.

\- For TDD UL/DL configurations {1, 2, 3, 4, 6} and a PUSCH transmission
not performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 and a
subframe ![](media/image1623.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in"
height="0.125in"} with ![](media/image1673.wmf){width="0.1875in"
height="0.15625in"}=3 or 4, ![](media/image1674.wmf){width="0.8125in"
height="0.28125in"}, ![](media/image1670.wmf){width="0.53125in"
height="0.1875in"}as defined in Table 10.1.3.2-5 or in Table 10.1.3.2-6
respectively. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the UE does
not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}
where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}.

For TDD HARQ-ACK bundling, when the UE is configured by transmission
mode 3, 4, 8, 9 or 10 defined in Clause 7.1 and HARQ-ACK bits
corresponding to a subframe-PDSCH are transmitted on PUSCH, the UE shall
always generate 2 HARQ-ACK bits assuming both codeword 0 and 1 are
enabled. For the case that the UE detects only the PDSCH transmission
associated with codeword 0 within the bundled subframes, the UE shall
generate NACK for codeword 1.

For TDD HARQ-ACK bundling, when HARQ-ACK response corresponds to a
slot-PDSCH, the UE shall always generate 1 HARQ-ACK bit.

Table 7.3-X: Value of Downlink Assignment Index

+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| DAI\     | !                          | Number of subframes/slots  |
| MSB, LSB | [](media/image1609.wmf){wi | with PDSCH transmission    |
|          | dth="0.3020833333333333in" | and                        |
|          | heig                       |                            |
|          | ht="0.2604166666666667in"} | with PDCCH/EPDC/SPDCCH CH  |
|          | or                         | indicating DL SPS release  |
|          | ![](media/image            |                            |
|          | 1675.wmf){width="0.3125in" |                            |
|          | heig                       |                            |
|          | ht="0.2604166666666667in"} |                            |
+==========+============================+============================+
| 0,0      | 1                          | 1 or 5 or 9                |
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| 0,1      | 2                          | 2 or 6 or 10               |
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| 1,0      | 3                          | 3 or 7                     |
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| 1,1      | 4                          | 0 or 4 or 8                |
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+

Table 7.3-Y: Uplink association index *k*\' for TDD

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TDD UL/DL\      subframe number *n*                                   
  Configuration                                                         
  --------------- --------------------- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
                  0                     1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9

  1                                         6   4               6   4   

  2                                         4                   4       

  3                                         4   4   4                   

  4                                         4   4                       

  5                                         4                           

  6                                         7   7   5           7   7   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.3-Y1: Uplink association index *k*\' for TDD and UE configured
with *shortProcessingTime*

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **subframe number *n***                                                                   
  Configuration**                                                                                             
  ----------------- ------------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------
                    **0**                     **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**

  1                                                   3       3                               3       3       

  2                                                   3                                       3               

  3                                                   3       3       3                                       

  4                                                   3       3                                               

  5                                                   3                                                       

  6                                                   6       4       4                       6       3       
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.3-Y2: Uplink association index *k*\' for TDD with special
subframe configuration 1, 2, 6, 7 and UE configured with *ul-TTI-Length*

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **slot number *n***                                                                                                                                                            
  Configuration**                                                                                                                                                                                  
  ----------------- --------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                    **0**                 **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**   **10**   **11**   **12**   **13**   **14**   **15**   **16**   **17**   **18**   **19**

  1                                                               4       4       4                                                                   4        4        4                          

  2                                                               4       4                                                                           4        4                                   

  3                                                               6       6       6       6       6       6                                                                                        

  4                                                               4       4       4       4                                                                                                        

  5                                                               4       4                                                                                                                        

  6                                                               6       6       6       6       6                                                   4        4        4                          
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.3-Y3: Uplink association index *k*\' for TDD with special
subframe configuration 0, 5, 9, 10 and UE configured with
*ul-TTI-Length*

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **slot number *n***                                                                                                                                                            
  Configuration**                                                                                                                                                                                  
  ----------------- --------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                    **0**                 **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**   **10**   **11**   **12**   **13**   **14**   **15**   **16**   **17**   **18**   **19**

  1                                                               5       5       5       5                                                           5        5        5        5                 

  2                                                               4       4                                                                           4        4                                   

  3                                                               7       7       7       7       7       7                                                                                        

  4                                                               5       5       5       5                                                                                                        

  5                                                               4       4                                                                                                                        

  6                                                               4               5               6                                                   4        4        4                          
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.3-Y4: Uplink association index *k*\' for TDD with special
subframe configuration 3, 4, 8 and UE configured with *ul-TTI-Length*

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **slot number *n***                                                                                                                                                            
  Configuration**                                                                                                                                                                                  
  ----------------- --------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                    **0**                 **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**   **10**   **11**   **12**   **13**   **14**   **15**   **16**   **17**   **18**   **19**

  1                                                               4       4       4       4                                                           4        4        4        4                 

  2                                                               4       4                                                                           4        4                                   

  3                                                               6       6       6       6       6       6                                                                                        

  4                                                               4       4       4       4                                                                                                        

  5                                                               4       4                                                                                                                        

  6                                                               6       6       6       6       6       6                                           4        4        4        4                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.3-Z: Value of
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} determined by the DAI field in DCI
format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DAI\       ![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in" height="0.22916666666666666in"}
  MSB, LSB   
  ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0,0        1

  0,1        2

  1,0        3

  1,1        4
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For subframe-PUSCH and TDD HARQ-ACK multiplexing and a subframe
![](media/image1623.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in" height="0.125in"}
with ![](media/image1676.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.15625in"},
spatial HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple codewords within a downlink or
special subframe is performed by a logical AND operation of all the
corresponding individual HARQ-ACKs. In case the UE is transmitting on
PUSCH, the UE shall determine the number of HARQ-ACK feedback bits
![](media/image1677.wmf){width="0.3854166666666667in"
height="0.21875in"} and the HARQ-ACK feedback bits
![](media/image1678.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} ,
![](media/image1679.wmf){width="1.2604166666666667in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} to be transmitted in subframe *n*.

-   If the PUSCH transmission is performed based on a detected
    PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 intended for the UE, then
    ![](media/image1680.wmf){width="0.8645833333333334in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"} unless
    ![](media/image1681.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"} and
    ![](media/image1682.wmf){width="1.125in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"} in which case the UE shall not
    transmit HARQ-ACK. The spatially bundled HARQ-ACK for a PDSCH
    transmission with a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH or for a PDCCH/EPDCCH
    indicating downlink SPS release in subframe
    ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} is
    associated with
    ![](media/image1683.wmf){width="0.5416666666666666in"
    height="0.28125in"} where *DAI(k)* is the value of DAI in DCI format
    1A/1B/1D/1/2/2A/2B/2C/2D detected in subframe
    ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}. For
    the case with ![](media/image1684.wmf){width="0.625in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"}, the HARQ-ACK associated with a PDSCH
    transmission without a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH is mapped to
    ![](media/image1685.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
    height="0.28125in"}. The HARQ-ACK feedback bits without any detected
    PDSCH transmission or without detected PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating
    downlink SPS release are set to NACK.

-   If the PUSCH transmission is not performed based on a detected
    PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 intended for the UE,
    ![](media/image1686.wmf){width="0.7708333333333334in"
    height="0.21875in"}, and ![](media/image1687.wmf){width="0.34375in"
    height="0.2708333333333333in"} is associated with the spatially
    bundled HARQ-ACK for downlink or special subframe
    ![](media/image1688.wmf){width="0.40625in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"},
    where![](media/image1689.wmf){width="0.4583333333333333in"
    height="0.2604166666666667in"}. The HARQ-ACK feedback bits without
    any detected PDSCH transmission or without detected PDCCH/EPDCCH
    indicating downlink SPS release are set to NACK. The UE shall not
    transmit HARQ-ACK if
    ![](media/image1690.wmf){width="0.9791666666666666in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* and PDSCH is associated with DCI
format 1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D, the following HARQ-ACK reporting
procedure applies to subframe-PDSCH operation. If a UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*
and PDSCH is associated with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, the following HARQ-ACK reporting
procedure applies to slot-PDSCH operation.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*, the value of the counter
Downlink Assignment Indicator (DAI) in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G denotes the
accumulative number of {serving cell, subframe/slot}-pair(s) in which
PDSCH transmission(s) associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH or
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release is present, up to
the present serving cell and present subframe/slot, first in increasing
order of serving cell index and then in increasing order of
subframe/slot index within subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}; the value
of the total DAI in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G denotes the
total number of {serving cell, subframe/slot }-pair(s) in which PDSCH
transmission(s) associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH(s) or
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release is present, up to
the present subframe/slot within subframe/slot (s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}, and shall
be updated from subframe/slot to subframe/slot. Denote
![](media/image1691.wmf){width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.25in"}
as the value of the counter DAI in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G scheduling
PDSCH transmission or indicating downlink SPS release for serving cell
*c* in subframe/slot ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"} according to table 7.3.2.1-1. Denote
![](media/image1692.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.25in"}as the value of
the total DAI in subframe/slot ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}, according to Table 7.3.2.1-1. The UE shall assume a
same value of total DAI in all PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH scheduling PDSCH
transmission(s) and PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
in a subframe/slot.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai* and if the UE transmits
HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format 3 or PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5 in
subframe/slot *n*, the UE shall determine the ![](media/image1574.wmf)
according to the following pseudo-code:

> Set *c = 0* -- cell index: lower indices correspond to lower RRC
> indices of corresponding cell
>
> Set *m = 0* -- subframe/slot index: lower index corresponds to earlier
> subframe within subframe(s)/slot(s)
> ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
> ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}
>
> Set *j = 0*
>
> Set ![](media/image1575.wmf)
>
> Set ![](media/image1693.wmf)
>
> Set ![](media/image1694.wmf)
>
> Set ![](media/image1577.wmf) to the number of cells configured by
> higher layers for the UE
>
> Set *M* to the number of subframes/slots within subframe(s)/slot(s)
> ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
> ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}

while *m \< M*

> while *c* \< ![](media/image1578.wmf){width="0.34375in"
> height="0.23958333333333334in"}
>
> if there is a PDSCH on serving cell *c* in subframe/slot *m*
> associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH or there is a PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH
> indicating downlink SPS release on serving cell *c* in subframe/slot
> *m* for which HARQ-ACK is transmitted in subframe/slot *n*,
>
> if ![](media/image1695.wmf)
>
> *j = j+1*
>
> end if
>
> ![](media/image1696.wmf)
>
> if ![](media/image1697.wmf)
>
> ![](media/image1698.wmf)
>
> else
>
> ![](media/image1699.wmf)
>
> end if
>
> if the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *FALSE*
> and the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two
> transport blocks in at least one configured serving cell,
>
> ![](media/image1700.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit corresponding to the first
> codeword of this cell
>
> ![](media/image1701.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit corresponding to the second
> codeword of this cell
>
> ![](media/image1702.wmf)
>
> elseif the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *TRUE*
> and the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two
> transport blocks in at least one configured serving cell,
>
> ![](media/image1703.wmf) = binary AND operation of the HARQ-ACK bits
> corresponding to the first and second codewords of this cell
>
> ![](media/image1704.wmf)
>
> else
>
> ![](media/image1705.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit of this cell
>
> ![](media/image1706.wmf)
>
> end if
>
> *c* = *c* + 1
>
> end while
>
> *m = m + 1*

end while

if ![](media/image1707.wmf)

> *j = j+1*
>
> end if
>
> if the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *FALSE*
> and the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two
> transport blocks in at least one configured serving cell,
>
> ![](media/image1708.wmf)
>
> else
>
> ![](media/image1709.wmf)

![](media/image1593.wmf) for any ![](media/image1594.wmf)

if SPS PDSCH transmission is activated for a UE and the UE is configured
to receive SPS PDSCH in a subframe/slot
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}

> ![](media/image1597.wmf)
>
> ![](media/image1598.wmf)= HARQ-ACK bit associated with the SPS PDSCH
> transmission

end if

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*, if the UE transmits HARQ-ACK
on PUSCH in a subframe/slot, the UE shall determine the
![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the above procedure as if the UE
transmits HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format 3 or PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH
format 5, except that the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH*
is replaced by *spatialBundlingPUSCH*.

Table 7.3.2.1-1: Value of counter DAI and total DAI

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DAI\       ![](media/image1710.wmf) or![](media/image1711.wmf)   Number of {serving cell, subframe/slot }-pair(s) in which PDSCH transmission(s) associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release is present, denoted as![](media/image1712.wmf) and ![](media/image1713.wmf)
  MSB, LSB                                                         
  ---------- ----------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0,0        1                                                     ![](media/image1714.wmf)

  0,1        2                                                     ![](media/image1715.wmf)

  1,0        3                                                     ![](media/image1716.wmf)

  1,1        4                                                     ![](media/image1717.wmf)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc* and if the UE transmits
HARQ-ACK using slot-PUCCH format 3 or PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5
in subframe/slot *n*, the UE shall determine the
![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the pseudo-code in Clause 5.2.3.1
for subframe-PUCCH transmission and Clause 5.2.3.1A for slot-PUCCH
transmission in \[4\].

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc*, if the UE transmits HARQ-ACK
on PUSCH in a subframe/slot, the UE shall determine the
![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the pseudo-code in Clause 5.2.2.6
in \[4\].

For TDD when a PUCCH format 3 or a PUCCH format 4/5 configured with
higher layer parameter *codebooksizeDetermination-r13 =cc* or
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc* transmission of HARQ-ACK
coincides with *a subframe*/slot *configured to the UE by higher layers
for transmission of a scheduling request*, the UE shall multiplex
HARQ-ACK and SR bits on HARQ-ACK PUCCH resource as defined in Clause
5.2.3.1 for subframe-PUCCH transmission and Clause 5.2.3.1A for
slot-PUCCH transmission in \[4\], unless the HARQ-ACK corresponds to one
of the following cases except for the UE configured with EN-DC and
*tdm-PatternConfig2*,

\- for subframe-PDSCH, a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary
cell indicated by the detection of a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH in
subframe ![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and for TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6
the DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table
7.3-X), or a PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in
Clause 9.2) in subframe ![](media/image1720.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1721.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and for TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6
the DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\', or

\- for subframe-PDSCH, a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary
cell where there is not a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH detected within
subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"} and no PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
(defined in Clause 9.2) within subframe(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}, or

\- for subframe-PDSCH, a PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell
where there is not a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH detected within
subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}and an additional PDSCH transmission only on the
primary cell indicated by the detection of a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH
in subframe ![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} with the DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH
equal to \'1\' (defined in Table 7.3-X) or a PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release (defined in Clause 9.2) in the subframe
![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} with the DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH
equal to \'1\',

in which case the UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK and scheduling request
according to the procedure for PUCCH format 1b with channel selection in
TDD.

For TDD when a PUCCH format 4/5 configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai* transmission of HARQ-ACK
coincides with *a subframe/slot configured to the UE by higher layers
for transmission of a scheduling request*, the UE shall multiplex
HARQ-ACK and SR bits on HARQ-ACK PUCCH resource as defined in Clause
5.2.3.1 and Clause 5.2.3.1A for slot-PUCCH transmission in \[4\], unless
the HARQ-ACK corresponds to one of the following cases

\- for subframe-PDSCH, a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary
cell indicated by the detection of a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH in
subframe ![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and both the counter DAI value and the
total DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table
7.3.2.1-1), or a single PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
(defined in Clause 9.2) in subframe
![](media/image1720.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1721.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and both the counter DAI value and the
total DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table
7.3.2.1-1), or

\- for subframe-PDSCH, a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary
cell where there is not a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH detected within
subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"} and no PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
(defined in Clause 9.2) within subframe(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}, or

\- for subframe-PDSCH, a PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell
where there is not a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH detected within
subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}and an additional PDSCH transmission only on the
primary cell indicated by the detection of a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH
in subframe ![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} with both the counter DAI value and the
total DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table
7.3.2.1-1) or an additional PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
(defined in Clause 9.2) in the subframe
![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} with both the counter DAI value and the
total DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table
7.3.2.1-1),

in which case the UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK and scheduling request
according to the procedure for PUCCH format 1b with channel selection in
TDD.

For TDD when the UE is configured with HARQ-ACK bundling, HARQ-ACK
multiplexing or PUCCH format 1b with channel selection, and when both
HARQ-ACK and SR are transmitted in the same subframe/slot, a UE shall
transmit the bundled HARQ-ACK or the multiple HARQ-ACK responses
(according to Clause 10.1) on its assigned HARQ-ACK PUCCH resources for
a negative SR transmission. For a positive SR, the UE shall transmit
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"} on its assigned SR PUCCH resource using
PUCCH format 1b according to Clause 5.4.1 for subframe-PDSCH and Clause
5.4A.2 for slot-PDSCH in \[3\]. For subframe-PDSCH, the value of
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"} are generated according to Table 7.3-1
from the ![](media/image1723.wmf){width="1.21875in"
height="0.5729166666666666in"} HARQ-ACK responses including ACK in
response to PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release by spatial
HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple codewords within each PDSCH
transmission for all serving cells
![](media/image1724.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}.
For slot-PDSCH, the value of
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5152777777777777in"
height="0.17430555555555555in"} are generated according to Table 7.3-1
from the ![](media/image1723.wmf){width="1.2270833333333333in"
height="0.5680555555555555in"} HARQ-ACK responses including ACK in
response to SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release. For TDD UL/DL
configurations 1-6, if
![](media/image1725.wmf){width="0.9791666666666666in"
height="0.5729166666666666in"} and
![](media/image1726.wmf){width="1.6666666666666667in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} for a serving cell c, the UE detects that
at least one downlink assignment has been missed.

Table 7.3-1: Mapping between multiple HARQ-ACK responses and
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"}

  Number of ACK among multiple (![](media/image1727.wmf){width="1.21875in" height="0.5729166666666666in"}) HARQ-ACK responses   ![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in" height="0.17708333333333334in"}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0 or None (UE detect at least one DL assignment is missed)                                                                    0, 0
  1                                                                                                                             1, 1
  2                                                                                                                             1, 0
  3                                                                                                                             0, 1
  4                                                                                                                             1, 1
  5                                                                                                                             1, 0
  6                                                                                                                             0, 1
  7                                                                                                                             1, 1
  8                                                                                                                             1, 0
  9                                                                                                                             0, 1

For TDD if the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI* provided by higher
layers is set *TRUE,* and if the UE is configured with HARQ-ACK
bundling, HARQ-ACK multiplexing or PUCCH format 1b with channel
selection, and if the UE receives PDSCH and/or PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release only on the primary cell within subframe(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}, a UE shall
transmit the CSI and
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"} using PUCCH format 2b for normal CP or
PUCCH format 2 for extended CP, according to Clause 5.2.3.4 in \[4\]
with ![](media/image1728.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} replaced by
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"}. The value of
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"} are generated according to Table 7.3-1
from the ![](media/image1729.wmf){width="1.21875in"
height="0.5729166666666666in"} HARQ-ACK responses including ACK in
response to PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release by spatial
HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple codewords within each PDSCH
transmission for all serving cells
![](media/image1730.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}.
For TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6, if
![](media/image1731.wmf){width="0.9791666666666666in"
height="0.5729166666666666in"} and
![](media/image1726.wmf){width="1.6666666666666667in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} for a serving cell c, the UE detects that
at least one downlink assignment has been missed.

For TDD if the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI* provided by higher
layers is set *TRUE,* and if the UE is configured with PUCCH format 1b
with channel selection and receives at least one PDSCH on the secondary
cell within subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}, the UE shall drop the CSI and transmit HARQ-ACK
according to Clause 10.1.3.

For TDD and a UE is configured with PUCCH format 3, except for the UE
configured with EN-DC and *tdm-PatternConfig2*,

if the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI* is set *TRUE* and if the UE
receives,

\- a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell indicated by the
detection of a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH in subframe
![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and for TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6
the DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table
7.3-X), or a PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in
Clause 9.2) in subframe ![](media/image1720.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1721.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and for TDD UL/DL configurations 1-6
the DAI value in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\', or

\- a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell where there is
not a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH detected within subframe(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"} and no
PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in Clause 9.2)
within subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"},

then the UE shall transmit the CSI and HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format
2/2a/2b according to Clause 5.2.3.4 in \[4\];

else if

\- the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format3-r11* is set *TRUE*
and if PUCCH format 3 resource is determined according to Clause
10.1.3.1 or Clause 10.1.3.2.2 and

\- if the total number of bits in the subframe corresponding to
HARQ-ACKs, SR (if any), and the CSI is not larger than 22, or

\- if the total number of bits in the subframe corresponding to
spatially bundled HARQ-ACKs, SR (if any), and the CSI is not larger than
22

then the UE sh*all transmit the HARQ-ACKs, SR (if an*y) and the CSI
using the determined PUCCH format 3 resource according to \[4\];

else,

\- the UE shall drop the CSI and transmit the HARQ-ACK according to
Clause 10.1.3.

For TDD and a UE configured with PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5, and
if the UE has HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic CSI reports to transmit in a
subframe,

-   if a PUCCH format 3 is determined to transmit the HARQ-ACK/SR
    > according to Clause 10.1.3.2.3 or 10.1.3.2.4, the UE shall use the
    > determined PUCCH format 3 for transmission of the HARQ-ACK/SR and
    > periodic CSI report(s) if the parameter
    > *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format3-r11* provided by higher layers
    > is set *TRUE*; otherwise, the UE shall drop the periodic CSI
    > report(s) and transmit only HARQ-ACK/SR;

-   if a PUCCH format 4 is determined to transmit the HARQ-ACK/SR
    > according to Clause 10.1.3.2.3 or a PUCCH format 5 is determined
    > to transmit the HARQ-ACK/SR according to 10.1.3.2.4, the UE shall
    > use the determined PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5 for
    > transmission of the HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic CSI report(s) if the
    > parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format4-Format5-r13* provided
    > by higher layers is set *TRUE*; otherwise, the UE shall drop the
    > periodic CSI report(s) and transmit only HARQ-ACK/SR;

-   if there is no PUCCH format 3 or 4 determined to transmit the
    > HARQ-ACK/SR according to Clause 10.1.3.2.3 and there is no PUCCH
    > format 3 or 5 determined to transmit the HARQ-ACK/SR according to
    > Clause 10.1.3.2.4 and there are more than one periodic CSI
    > report(s) in the subframe,

    -   if the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format4-Format5-r13*
        provided by higher layers is set *TRUE* and if the UE is
        configured with a single PUCCH format 4 resource
        ![](media/image516.wmf) according to higher layer parameter
        *format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, the PUCCH format 4
        resource ![](media/image516.wmf) is used for transmission of the
        HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic CSI report(s);

    -   if the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format4-Format5-r13*
        provided by higher layers is set *TRUE* and if the UE is
        configured with a PUCCH format 5 resource
        ![](media/image517.wmf)according to higher layer parameter
        *format5-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*, the PUCCH format 5
        resource ![](media/image518.wmf)is used for transmission of the
        HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic CSI report(s);

    -   if the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format4-Format5-r13*
        provided by higher layers is set *TRUE* and if the UE is
        configured with two PUCCH format 4 resources
        ![](media/image519.wmf) and ![](media/image520.wmf)according to
        higher layer parameter *format4-MultiCSI-resourceConfiguration*,
        if ![](media/image1732.wmf), the PUCCH format 4 resource with
        the smaller ![](media/image522.wmf) between
        ![](media/image519.wmf) and ![](media/image520.wmf) is used for
        transmission of the HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic CSI report(s);
        otherwise, the PUCCH format 4 resource with the larger
        ![](media/image522.wmf) between ![](media/image519.wmf) and
        ![](media/image520.wmf) is used for transmission of the
        HARQ-ACK/SR periodic CSI report(s), where

        -   ![](media/image1733.wmf) is the total number of HARQ-ACK
            bits in the subframe;

        -   ![](media/image525.wmf)if there is no scheduling request bit
            in the subframe and ![](media/image526.wmf) otherwise

        -   ![](media/image523.wmf) is the total number of CSI report
            bits in the subframe;

        -   ![](media/image1734.wmf) is the number of CRC bits;

        -   ![](media/image522.wmf), ![](media/image527.wmf), is the
            number of PRBs for ![](media/image519.wmf) and
            ![](media/image520.wmf) respectively, according to higher
            layer parameter *numberOfPRB-format4-r13* according to Table
            10.1.1-2;

        -   ![](media/image528.wmf) if shortened PUCCH format 4 is used
            in the subframe and ![](media/image529.wmf) otherwise; and

        -   ![](media/image530.wmf) is the code rate given by higher
            layer parameter *maximumPayloadCoderate-r13* according to
            Table 10.1.1-1*.*

    -   otherwise, the UE shall drop the periodic CSI reports and
        transmit only HARQ-ACK/SR.

-   if there is no PUCCH format 3 or 4 determined to transmit the
    > HARQ-ACK/SR according to Clause 10.1.3.2.3 and there is no PUCCH
    > format 3 or 5 determined to transmit the HARQ-ACK/SR according to
    > Clause 10.1.3.2.4 and there is only one periodic CSI report in the
    > subframe,

    -   if there is no positive SR and the parameter
        *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI* is set *TRUE* and if the UE
        receives,

        -   a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell
            indicated by the detection of a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH
            in subframe ![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
            height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
            ![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
            height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and the counter DAI value
            in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table
            7.3-X), or a PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
            (defined in Clause 9.2) in subframe
            ![](media/image1720.wmf){width="0.375in"
            height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
            ![](media/image1721.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
            height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and the counter DAI value
            in the PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\', or

        -   a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell where
            there is not a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH detected within
            subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
            height="0.1875in"}, where
            ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}
            and no PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined
            in Clause 9.2) within subframe(s)
            ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
            height="0.1875in"}, where
            ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"},

> then the UE shall transmit the CSI and HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format
> 2/2a/2b according to Clause 5.2.3.4 in \[4\];

-   else,

> the UE shall drop the CSI and transmit the HARQ-ACK according to
> Clause 10.1.3.2.3 or 10.1.3.2.4 when UE shall transmit HARQ-ACK only
> or UE shall drop the CSI and transmit the HARQ-ACK and SR according to
> the procedure for PUCCH format 1b with channel selection in TDD when
> there is positive SR.

-   If a UE transmits HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic CSI report(s) using
    > either a PUCCH format 4 ![](media/image516.wmf) or PUCCH format 5
    > ![](media/image517.wmf)in a subframe

    -   if ![](media/image1735.wmf), the UE shall transmit the
        > HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic CSI bits using the PUCCH format 4
        > ![](media/image516.wmf) or the PUCCH format 5
        > ![](media/image517.wmf) ;

    -   if ![](media/image1736.wmf), the UE shall select
        > ![](media/image532.wmf) CSI report(s) for transmission
        > together with HARQ-ACK/SR in ascending order of
        > ![](media/image533.wmf), where ![](media/image533.wmf),
        > ![](media/image1737.wmf) and ![](media/image1738.wmf)are
        > determined according to Clause 7.2.2; the value of
        > ![](media/image532.wmf) satisfies ![](media/image1739.wmf) and
        > ![](media/image1740.wmf), and ![](media/image551.wmf) is the
        > number of CSI report bits for the *n*th CSI report in
        > ascending order of ![](media/image533.wmf).

For TDD and a BL/CE UE,

\- if the UE is configured with ***ce-PDSCH-MultiTB-Config***, and
multiple TBs are scheduled by a single DCI

\- the UE is not expected to receive any other PDSCH transmission(s) or
MPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release, corresponding to which the UE
shall report HARQ-ACK in any subframe(s) in which HARQ-ACKs are reported
for the multiple TBs scheduled by the single DCI, according to clause
10.2

\- the UE behaviour for HARQ-ACK reporting is the same as that of a
BL/CE UE with FDD, except:

\- PUCCH resource(s) is (are) determined according to Clause 10.1.3.1;
and

\- PUCCH(s) is (are) transmitted in a set of BL/CE UL subframe(s)
according to Clause 10.2 for TDD and BL/CE UEs;

\- else if the UE is configured with *csi-NumRepetitionCE* equal to 1
and *mPDCCH-NumRepetition* equal to 1,

\- the UE behaviour for HARQ-ACK reporting is the same as that of a
non-BL/CE UE with TDD, except:

\- PDCCH/EPDCCH is replaced by MPDCCH; and

\- DCI format 1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D is replaced by DCI format 6-1A;
and

\- DCI format 0/4 is replaced by DCI format 6-0A; and

\- PUCCH is transmitted in a set of BL/CE UL subframe(s) according to
Clause 10.2 for TDD and BL/CE UEs;

\- else

\- the UE is not expected to receive more than one PDSCH transmission,
or more than one of PDSCH and MPDCCH indicating downlink SPS releases,
with transmission ending within subframe(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"} and
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} is defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1 intended for the UE;

\- The UE behavior for HARQ-ACK reporting is the same as that of a BL/CE
UE with FDD, except:

\- PUCCH resource is determined according to Clause 10.1.3.1; and

\- PUCCH is transmitted in a set of BL/CE UL subframe(s) according to
Clause 10.2 for TDD and BL/CE UEs.

If the BL/CE UE is configured in CEModeA, and if the PDSCH is assigned
by or semi-statically scheduled by a MPDCCH with DCI format 6-1A, the UE
shall assume no PDSCH repetition if the higher layer parameter
*csi-NumRepetitionCE-r13* indicates one subframe.

#### 7.3.2.2 TDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure for different UL/DL configurations

For a configured serving cell, the DL-reference UL/DL configuration as
defined in Clause 10.2 is referred to as the \"DL-reference UL/DL
configuration\" in the rest of this Clause.

For a configured serving cell, if a UE is not configured with higher
layer parameter *codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai* and if the DL-reference UL/DL
configuration is 0, then the DAI in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G is not used.

The UE shall upon detection of a PDSCH transmission or a
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in Clause
9.2) within subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} for serving
cell *c*, where ![](media/image1741.wmf){width="0.4895833333333333in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} intended for the UE and for which
HARQ-ACK response shall be provided, transmit the HARQ-ACK response in
UL subframe/slot *n*, wherein set
![](media/image1742.wmf){width="0.22916666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}contains values of
![](media/image1743.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}such that subframe/slot *n-k* corresponds
to a downlink subframe/slot or a special subframe or a slot in a special
subframe for serving cell *c*, where DL subframe or special subframe of
serving cell *c* is according to the higher layer parameter
*eimta-HARQ-ReferenceConfig-r12* if the UE is configured with the higher
layer parameter *EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for serving cell *c,* or
to *harq-ReferenceConfig-r14* when the UE is configured with the
parameter *harq-ReferenceConfig-r14;*
![](media/image1608.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15625in"} is defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1C if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* for slot-PDSCH, in
Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for subframe-PDSCH and in
Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise (where \"UL/DL configuration\" in Table
10.1.3.1-1, Table 10.1.3.1-1B, Table 10.1.3.1-1C refers to the
DL-reference UL/DL configuration) is associated with subframe/slot *n.*
![](media/image1744.wmf){width="0.21875in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} is the number of elements in set
![](media/image1742.wmf){width="0.22916666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}associated with subframe/slot *n* for
serving cell *c*.

For the remainder of this Clause
![](media/image1745.wmf){width="0.5416666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}.

If the UE is configured with the parameter
*EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* for the primary cell, \"UL/DL
configuration of the primary cell\" in the rest of this Clause refers to
\"DL-reference UL/DL configuration of the primary cell\".

When PUCCH format 3/4/5 is configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK,

\- for special subframe configurations 0 and 5 with normal downlink CP
or configurations 0 and 4 with extended downlink CP in a serving cell,
shown in table 4.2-1 \[3\], the special subframe of the serving cell is
excluded from the HARQ-ACK codebook size determination. In this case, if
the serving cell is the primary cell, there is no PDCCH/EPDCCH
indicating downlink SPS release in the special subframe.

\- for special subframe configurations 1, 2, 6, and 7 and slot-PDSCH,
the second slot of DwPTS of the serving cell is excluded from the
HARQ-ACK codebook size determination. In this case, if the serving cell
is the primary cell, there is no PDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release in the second slot of DwPTS.

If the UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined in Sec 8.0) belongs to
{1,2,3,4,5,6} for a serving cell, a value
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}is determined by the Downlink Assignment
Index (DAI) in DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B corresponding to a PUSCH on the
serving cell according to Table 7.3-Z in subframe
![](media/image1610.wmf){width="0.40625in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}, where
![](media/image1611.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} is defined in Table 7.3-Y2 if the UE is
configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* for slot-PDSCH, Table
7.3-Y1 if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for subframe-PDSCH, Table
7.3-Y otherwise and the \"TDD UL/DL Configuration\" in Table
7.3-Y/7.3-Y1/7.3-Y2 refers to the UL-reference UL/DL configuration
(defined in Clause 8.0) for the serving cell. In case neither PDSCH
transmission, nor PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating the downlink SPS
resource release is intended to the UE, the UE can expect that the value
of ![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} is set to 4 by the DAI in DCI format
0/4/7-0A/7-0B if transmitted.

If a UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai* and if the DL-reference UL/DL
configuration belongs to {1,2,3,4,5,6}, the value of the DAI in DCI
format 1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G
denotes the accumulative number of PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH (s) with assigned
PDSCH transmission(s) and PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release up to the present subframe/slot within subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} of each
configured serving cell, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}, and shall be updated from subframe/slot to
subframe/slot. Denote
![](media/image1614.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} as the value of the DAI in
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G detected by
the UE according to Table 7.3-X in
subframe/slot![](media/image1615.wmf){width="0.4375in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} in serving cell
![](media/image1616.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"}, where
![](media/image1617.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} is the smallest value in the set
![](media/image1618.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.1875in"} such that
the UE detects a DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G.

For all TDD UL/DL configurations, denote
![](media/image1620.wmf){width="0.4375in" height="0.21875in"} as the
total number of PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH (s) with assigned PDSCH
transmission(s) and PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release
detected by the UE within the subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} in serving
cell ![](media/image1616.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}. Denote
![](media/image1622.wmf){width="0.34375in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}, which can be zero or one, as the number
of PDSCH transmissions without a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH
within the subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}.

If PUCCH format 3 is configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK without
PUCCH format 4/5 configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK, the HARQ-ACK
feedback bits ![](media/image1641.wmf){width="1.4791666666666667in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"} for the *c*-th serving cell configured by
RRC are constructed as follows, where *c*≥0,
![](media/image1642.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} if transmission mode configured in the
*c*-th serving cell supports one transport block or spatial HARQ-ACK
bundling is applied and
![](media/image1643.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}otherwise,
where![](media/image1644.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} is the number of subframes/slots in
downlink and special subframes for which the UE needs to feedback
HARQ-ACK bits for the *c*-th serving cell.

\- For the case that the UE is transmitting in subframe/slot *n* on
PUCCH or a PUSCH transmission not performed based on a detected DCI
format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B or a PUSCH transmission performed based on an
associated detected DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B with UL-reference UL/DL
configuration 0 (defined in Sec 8.0),
then![](media/image1746.wmf){width="0.71875in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release in subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}.

\- If DL-reference UL/DL configuration of each of the configured serving
cells belongs to {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6} and for a PUSCH transmission in a
subframe/slot *n* performed based on a detected PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with
DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B using UL-reference UL/DL configuration
belonging to {1,2,3,4,5,6} (defined in Sec 8.0), the UE shall assume
![](media/image1747.wmf){width="1.4375in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release in subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"} and
![](media/image1649.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}.

\- If DL-reference UL/DL configuration of at least one configured
serving cell belongs to {5} and for a PUSCH transmission performed based
on an associated detected PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format
0/4/7-0A/7-0B using UL-reference UL/DL configuration belonging to
{1,2,3,4,5,6} (defined in Sec 8.0), the UE shall assume
![](media/image1748.wmf){width="2.53125in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"}, where
![](media/image1651.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}denotes the maximum value of
![](media/image1652.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} among all the configured serving
cells,![](media/image1652.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} is the total number of received PDSCHs
and PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} for the *c*-th serving
cell,![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}. The UE
shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"} and
![](media/image1649.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}.

If PUCCH format 4/5 is configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK and
higher layer parameter *codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai* is not configured, the
HARQ-ACK feedback bits
![](media/image1641.wmf){width="1.4791666666666667in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"} for the *c*-th serving cell configured by
RRC are constructed as follows, where *c*≥0,
![](media/image1642.wmf){width="0.8333333333333334in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} if transmission mode configured in the
*c*-th serving cell supports one transport block or spatial HARQ-ACK
bundling is applied and
![](media/image1643.wmf){width="0.9166666666666666in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}otherwise,
where![](media/image1644.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"} is the number of subframes/slots in
downlink and special subframes for which the UE needs to feedback
HARQ-ACK bits for the *c*-th serving cell.

\- For the case that the UE is transmitting in subframe/slot *n* on
PUCCH or a PUSCH transmission not performed based on a detected DCI
format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B or a PUSCH transmission performed based on an
associated detected DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B,
then![](media/image1746.wmf){width="0.71875in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on
PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating
downlink SPS release in subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}.

When PUCCH format 3/4/5 is configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK and
if the UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*,

-   if DL-reference UL/DL configuration belongs to {1,2,3,4,5,6}, the
    HARQ-ACK for a PDSCH transmission with a corresponding
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH or for a PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink
    SPS release in subframe/slot
    ![](media/image1653.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
    height="0.16666666666666666in"} is associated with
    ![](media/image1654.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
    height="0.28125in"} if transmission mode configured in the *c*-th
    serving cell supports one transport block or spatial HARQ-ACK
    bundling is applied, or associated with
    ![](media/image1655.wmf){width="0.7604166666666666in"
    height="0.28125in"} and ![](media/image1656.wmf){width="0.71875in"
    height="0.28125in"} otherwise, where *DAI(k)* is the value of DAI in
    DCI format 1A/1B/1D/1/2/2A/2B/2C/2D detected in subframe
    ![](media/image1657.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
    height="0.16666666666666666in"},
    ![](media/image1658.wmf){width="0.7604166666666666in"
    height="0.28125in"} and ![](media/image1659.wmf){width="0.71875in"
    height="0.28125in"} are the HARQ-ACK feedback for codeword 0 and
    codeword 1, respectively. For the case with
    ![](media/image1660.wmf){width="0.5729166666666666in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}, the HARQ-ACK associated with a
    PDSCH transmission without a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH is
    mapped to ![](media/image1661.wmf){width="0.59375in"
    height="0.3333333333333333in"} The HARQ-ACK feedback bits without
    any detected PDSCH transmission or without detected
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release are set to NACK;

> \- if DL-reference UL/DL configuration is 0, the HARQ-ACK for a PDSCH
> transmission or for a PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
> release in subframe/slot
> ![](media/image1653.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
> height="0.16666666666666666in"} is associated with
> ![](media/image1662.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"} if
> transmission mode configured in the *c*-th serving cell supports one
> transport block or spatial HARQ-ACK bundling is applied, or associated
> with ![](media/image1663.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"}
> and ![](media/image1664.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"}
> otherwise, where ![](media/image1663.wmf){width="0.34375in"
> height="0.28125in"} and ![](media/image1664.wmf){width="0.34375in"
> height="0.28125in"} are the HARQ-ACK feedback for codeword 0 and
> codeword 1, respectively. The HARQ-ACK feedback bits without any
> detected PDSCH transmission or without detected PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH
> indicating downlink SPS release are set to NACK.

If DL-reference UL/DL configuration of each of the serving cells belongs
to {0,1,2,3,4,6} and if PUCCH format 1b with channel selection is
configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK and for two configured serving
cells, the HARQ-ACK feedback bits
![](media/image1665.wmf){width="1.375in" height="0.3125in"}on PUSCH are
constructed as follows

\- if UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined in Sec 8.0) belongs to
{1, 2, 3, 4, 6}, for a PUSCH transmission performed based on a detected
PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 with
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}=1 or 2,
![](media/image1668.wmf){width="0.34375in" height="0.28125in"} is
determined as if PUCCH format 3 is configured for transmission of
HARQ-ACK, except that spatial HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple
codewords within a downlink or special subframe is performed for all
serving cells configured with a downlink transmission mode that supports
up to two transport blocks in case
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}=2, where the UL-reference UL/DL
configuration is the UL-reference UL/DL configuration of the serving
cell corresponding to the PUSCH transmission.

\- if UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined in Sec 8.0) belongs to
{1, 2, 3, 4, 6}, for a PUSCH transmission performed based on a detected
PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4 with
![](media/image1613.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"}=3 or 4,
![](media/image1669.wmf){width="0.8125in" height="0.28125in"},
![](media/image1670.wmf){width="0.53125in" height="0.1875in"}as defined
in Table 10.1.3.2-5 or in Table 10.1.3.2-6 respectively, where the value
of ![](media/image1671.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.125in"}is replaced by
![](media/image1672.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.22916666666666666in"} where the UL-reference UL/DL
configuration is the UL-reference UL/DL configuration of the serving
cell corresponding to the PUSCH transmission. The UE shall not transmit
HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH
indicating downlink SPS release in
subframe(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}
where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"} and
![](media/image1649.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in"
height="0.23958333333333334in"}.

\- if UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined in Sec 8.0) is 0, or if
UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined in Sec 8.0) belongs to {1, 2,
3, 4, 6}, for a PUSCH transmission not performed based on a detected
PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4, for a subframe
![](media/image1623.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in" height="0.125in"}
with ![](media/image1673.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"}=1 or
2 (![](media/image1673.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"} defined
in Sec 10.1.3.2.1), ![](media/image1668.wmf){width="0.34375in"
height="0.28125in"}= HARQ-ACK(*j*),
![](media/image1667.wmf){width="0.71875in" height="0.1875in"} as defined
in Clause 10.1.3.2.1, where the UL-reference UL/DL configuration is the
UL-reference UL/DL configuration of the serving cell corresponding to
the PUSCH transmission. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if
the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release in subframe(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}.

\- if UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined in Sec 8.0) is 0, or if
UL-reference UL/DL configuration (defined in Sec 8.0) belongs to {1, 2,
3, 4, 6} and, for a PUSCH transmission not performed based on a detected
PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0/4, for a subframe
![](media/image1623.wmf){width="0.11458333333333333in" height="0.125in"}
with ![](media/image1673.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"}=3 or
4 (![](media/image1673.wmf){width="0.1875in" height="0.15625in"} defined
in Sec 10.1.3.2.1), ![](media/image1674.wmf){width="0.8125in"
height="0.28125in"}, ![](media/image1670.wmf){width="0.53125in"
height="0.1875in"}as defined in Table 10.1.3.2-5 or in Table 10.1.3.2-6
respectively, where the UL-reference UL/DL configuration is the
UL-reference UL/DL configuration of the serving cell corresponding to
the PUSCH transmission. The UE shall not transmit HARQ-ACK on PUSCH if
the UE does not receive PDSCH or PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release in subframe(s)![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* and PDSCH is associated with DCI
format 1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D, the following HARQ-ACK reporting
procedure applies to subframe-PDSCH operation. If a UE is configured
with higher layer parameter *codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*
and PDSCH is associated with DCI format
7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G, the following HARQ-ACK reporting
procedure applies to slot-PDSCH operation.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*, the value of the counter
Downlink Assignment Indicator (DAI) in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G denotes the
accumulative number of {serving cell, subframe/slot}-pair(s) in which
PDSCH transmission(s) associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH or
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release is present, up to
the present serving cell and present subframe/slot, first in increasing
order of serving cell index and then in increasing order of
subframe/slot index within subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1749.wmf)
where ![](media/image1750.wmf) and *C* is the set of configured serving
cells; the value of the total DAI in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G denotes the
total number of {serving cell, subframe/slot}-pair(s) in which PDSCH
transmission(s) associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH (s) or
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release is present, up to
the present subframe/slot within subframe(s)/slot(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
![](media/image1750.wmf) and *C* is the set of configured serving cells,
and shall be updated from subframe/slot to subframe/slot. Denote
![](media/image1751.wmf) as the value of the counter DAI in DCI format
1/1A/1B/1D/2/2A/2B/2C/2D/7-1A/7-1B/7-1C/7-1D/7-1E/7-1F/7-1G scheduling
PDSCH transmission or indicating downlink SPS release for serving cell
*c* in subframe/slot ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1750.wmf) according to table
7.3.2.1-1. Denote ![](media/image1752.wmf)as the value of the total DAI
in subframe/slot ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"} where ![](media/image1750.wmf), according to Table
7.3.2.1-1. The UE shall assume a same value of total DAI in all
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH scheduling PDSCH transmission(s) and
PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in a subframe/slot.
For a serving cell *c* and a value ![](media/image1750.wmf) but
![](media/image1753.wmf), the {serving cell, subframe/slot}-pair {*c*,
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}} is
excluded when determining the values of counter DAI and total DAI for
HARQ-ACK transmission in subframe/slot *n*.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai* and if the UE transmits
HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format 3 or PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5 in
subframe/slot *n*, the UE shall determine the ![](media/image1574.wmf)
according to the following pseudo-code:

> Set *c = 0* -- cell index: lower indices correspond to lower RRC
> indices of corresponding cell
>
> Set *m = 0* -- subframe/slot index: lower index corresponds to earlier
> subframe/slot within subframe(s)/slot(s)
> ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
> ![](media/image1750.wmf)
>
> Set *j = 0*
>
> Set ![](media/image1575.wmf)
>
> Set ![](media/image1693.wmf)
>
> Set ![](media/image1694.wmf)
>
> Set ![](media/image1577.wmf) to the number of cells configured by
> higher layers for the UE
>
> Set *M* to the number of subframes/slots within subframe(s)/slot(s)
> ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
> ![](media/image1750.wmf)

while *m \< M*

> while *c* \< ![](media/image1578.wmf){width="0.34375in"
> height="0.23958333333333334in"}
>
> if there is a PDSCH on serving cell *c* in subframe/slot *m*
> associated with PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH or there is a PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH
> indicating downlink SPS release on serving cell *c* in subframe/slot
> *m*, and if subframe/slot *m* belongs to the set of
> subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1749.wmf) where
> ![](media/image1754.wmf),
>
> if ![](media/image1695.wmf)
>
> *j = j+1*
>
> end if
>
> ![](media/image1696.wmf)
>
> if ![](media/image1697.wmf)
>
> ![](media/image1698.wmf)
>
> else
>
> ![](media/image1755.wmf)
>
> end if
>
> if the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *FALSE*
> and the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two
> transport blocks in at least one configured serving cell,
>
> ![](media/image1700.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit corresponding to the first
> codeword of this cell
>
> ![](media/image1756.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit corresponding to the second
> codeword of this cell
>
> ![](media/image1702.wmf)
>
> elseif the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *TRUE*
> and the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two
> transport blocks in at least one configured serving cell,
>
> ![](media/image1757.wmf) = binary AND operation of the HARQ-ACK bits
> corresponding to the first and second codewords of this cell
>
> ![](media/image1704.wmf)
>
> else
>
> ![](media/image1758.wmf) = HARQ-ACK bit of this cell
>
> ![](media/image1706.wmf)
>
> end if
>
> end if
>
> *c* = *c* + 1
>
> end while
>
> *m = m + 1*

end while

if ![](media/image1759.wmf)

> *j = j+1*
>
> end if
>
> if the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH* is set *FALSE*
> and the UE is configured with a transmission mode supporting two
> transport blocks in at least one configured serving cell,
>
> ![](media/image1708.wmf)
>
> else
>
> ![](media/image1709.wmf)
>
> end if

![](media/image1593.wmf) for any ![](media/image1594.wmf)

if SPS PDSCH transmission is activated for a UE and the UE is configured
to receive SPS PDSCH in a subframe/slot
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"} where
![](media/image1750.wmf)

> ![](media/image1597.wmf)
>
> ![](media/image1598.wmf)= HARQ-ACK bit associated with the SPS PDSCH
> transmission

end if

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*, if the UE transmits HARQ-ACK
on PUSCH in a subframe/slot, the UE shall determine the
![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the above procedure as if the UE
transmits HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format 3 or PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH
format 5, except that the higher layer parameter *spatialBundlingPUCCH*
is replaced by *spatialBundlingPUSCH*.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc*, if the UE transmits HARQ-ACK
using PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5 in subframe/slot *n*, the UE
shall determine the ![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the
pseudo-code in Clause 5.2.3.1 in \[4\].

For a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc*, if the UE transmits HARQ-ACK
on PUSCH in a subframe/slot, the UE shall determine the
![](media/image1574.wmf) according to the pseudo-code in Clause 5.2.2.6
in \[4\].

When a PUCCH format 3 transmission of HARQ-ACK coincides with *a
subframe/slot configured to the UE by higher layers for transmission of
a scheduling request*, the UE shall multiplex HARQ-ACK and SR bits on
HARQ-ACK PUCCH resource as defined in Clause 5.2.3.1 for subframe-PUCCH
transmission and Clause 5.2.3.1A for slot-PUCCH transmission in \[4\],
unless the HARQ-ACK corresponds to one of the following cases except for
the UE configured with EN-DC and *tdm-PatternConfig2*,

-   a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell indicated by
    the detection of a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH in
    subframe/slot ![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
    ![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and for UL/DL configuration of the
    primary cell belonging to {1,2,3,4,5,6}, the DAI value in the
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table 7.3-X), or a
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in
    Clause 9.2) in subframe/slot
    ![](media/image1720.wmf){width="0.375in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
    ![](media/image1721.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and for UL/DL configuration of the
    primary cell belonging to {1,2,3,4,5,6} the DAI value in the
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH is equal to \'1\', or

-   a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell where there is
    not a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH detected within
    subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
    height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
    height="0.1875in"} and no PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink
    SPS release (defined in Clause 9.2) within subframe(s)/slot(s)
    ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
    ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"}, or

-   a PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell where there is not a
    corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH detected within
    subframe(s)/slot(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
    height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
    height="0.1875in"}and an additional PDSCH transmission only on the
    primary cell indicated by the detection of a corresponding
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH in subframe/slot
    ![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
    ![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"} with the DAI value in the
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH equal to \'1\' (defined in Table 7.3-X) or a
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in
    Clause 9.2) in the subframe/slot
    ![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
    ![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
    height="0.20833333333333334in"} with the DAI value in the
    PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH equal to \'1\',

in which case the UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK and scheduling request
according to the procedure for PUCCH format 1b with channel selection in
TDD for subframe-PDSCH and PUCCH format 1b for slot-PDSCH.

When a PUCCH format 4/5 transmission of HARQ-ACK coincides with *a
subframe/slot configured to the UE by higher layers for transmission of
a scheduling request*, the UE shall follow the same procedure described
in Clause 7.3.2.1.

If the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI* provided by higher layers
is set *TRUE,* and if the UE is configured with PUCCH format 1b with
channel selection, and if the UE receives PDSCH and/or PDCCH/EPDCCH
indicating downlink SPS release only on the primary cell within
subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}, a UE shall transmit the CSI and
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"} using PUCCH format 2b for normal CP or
PUCCH format 2 for extended CP, according to Clause 5.2.3.4 in \[4\]
with ![](media/image1728.wmf){width="0.3645833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} replaced by
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"}. The value of
![](media/image1722.wmf){width="0.5208333333333334in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"} are generated according to Table 7.3-1
from the ![](media/image1729.wmf){width="1.21875in"
height="0.5729166666666666in"} HARQ-ACK responses including ACK in
response to PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release by spatial
HARQ-ACK bundling across multiple codewords within each PDSCH
transmission for all serving cells
![](media/image1730.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}.
If DL-reference UL/DL configuration belongs to {1,2,3,4,5,6} and, if
![](media/image1731.wmf){width="0.9791666666666666in"
height="0.5729166666666666in"} and
![](media/image1726.wmf){width="1.6666666666666667in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} for a serving cell c, the UE detects that
at least one downlink assignment has been missed.

If the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI* provided by higher layers
is set *TRUE,* and if the UE is configured with PUCCH format 1b with
channel selection and receives at least one PDSCH on the secondary cell
within subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"}, the UE shall drop the CSI and transmit HARQ-ACK
according to Clause 10.1.3.

When both HARQ-ACK and CSI are configured to be transmitted in the same
sub-frame and if a UE is configured with PUCCH format 3 and not
configured with PUCCH format 4/5, except for the UE configured with
EN-DC and *tdm-PatternConfig2*,

if the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI* is set *TRUE* and if the UE
receives

\- a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell indicated by the
detection of a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH in subframe
![](media/image1718.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1719.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and for UL/DL configuration of the
primary cell belonging to {1,2,3,4,5,6} the DAI value in the
PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\' (defined in Table 7.3-X), or a
PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in Clause 9.2) in
subframe ![](media/image1720.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, where
![](media/image1721.wmf){width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, and for UL/DL configuration of the
primary cell belonging to {1,2,3,4,5,6} the DAI value in the
PDCCH/EPDCCH is equal to \'1\', or

\- a single PDSCH transmission only on the primary cell where there is
not a corresponding PDCCH detected within subframe(s)
![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in" height="0.1875in"}, where
![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.1875in"} and no
PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS release (defined in Clause 9.2)
within subframe(s) ![](media/image1606.wmf){width="0.3125in"
height="0.1875in"}, where ![](media/image1607.wmf){width="0.375in"
height="0.1875in"},

then the UE shall transmit the CSI and HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format
2/2a/2b according to Clause 5.2.3.4 in \[4\];

else if

\- the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format3-r11* is set *TRUE*
and if PUCCH format 3 resource is determined according to Clause
10.1.3.1 or Clause 10.1.3.2.2 and

\- if the total number of bits in the subframe corresponding to
HARQ-ACKs, SR (if any), and the CSI is not larger than 22, or

\- if the total number of bits in the subframe corresponding to
spatially bundled HARQ-ACKs, SR (if any), and the CSI is not larger than
22

then the UE sh*all transmit the HARQ-ACKs, SR (if an*y) and the CSI
using the determined PUCCH format 3 resource according to \[4\];

else,

\- the UE shall drop the CSI and transmit the HARQ-ACK according to
Clause 10.1.3.

For TDD and a UE configured with PUCCH format 4 or PUCCH format 5, if
the parameter *simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format4-Format5-r13* provided
by higher layers is set *TRUE,* and if the UE has HARQ-ACK/SR and
periodic CSI reports to transmit in a subframe, the UE HARQ-ACK/SR and
periodic CSI reporting procedure follow the procedure described in
Clause 7.3.2.1 with the parameter
*simultaneousAckNackAndCQI-Format4-Format5-r13* provided by higher
layers is set *TRUE*.

### 7.3.3 FDD-TDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure for primary cell frame structure type 1

For FDD-TDD and the primary cell is frame structure type 1, with PUCCH
format 1b with channel selection,

\- for a negative SR transmission,

\- UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK on its assigned HARQ-ACK PUCCH
resource with channel selection as defined in Clause 10.1.2A.

\- for a positive SR transmission,

\- if one transport block or two transport blocks or a PDCCH/EPDCCH
indicating downlink SPS release is detected on the primary cell in
subframe ![](media/image1760.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in"
height="0.1875in"}, and if subframe *j* is an uplink or a special
subframe of configurations 0, 5 and 10 if configured by
*ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS* with normal downlink CP or of configurations 0 and
4 with extended downlink CP for the secondary cell according to the
higher layer parameter subframeAssignment for UE not configured with
either higher layer parameter *EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12* or
*harq-ReferenceConfig-r14* and according to the higher layer parameter
*eimta-HARQ-ReferenceConfig-r12* for UE configured with the higher layer
parameter *EIMTA-MainConfigServCell-r12,* and to
*harq-ReferenceConfig-r14* for the primary cell when the UE is
configured with the parameter *harq-ReferenceConfig-r14*

\- UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK and SR as for FDD with PUCCH format
1a/1b as described in Clause 7.3.1.

\- otherwise

\- UE shall transmit the HARQ-ACK and SR as for FDD with PUCCH format 1b
with channel selection as described in Clause 7.3.1.

where the value of *j* is

*- i-1* if UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* for primary cell and the corresponding PDCCH with
CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space on primary
cell, and UE is not configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* for secondary cell,

*- i+1* if UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* for both primary and secondary cells except when
the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by C-RNTI is in the
UE-specific search space on primary cell,

\- *i*, otherwise.

For FDD-TDD and the primary cell is frame structure type 1, when PUCCH
format 3/4/5 is configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK,

\- for special subframe configurations 0, 5 and 10 if configured by
*ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS* with normal downlink CP or configurations 0 and 4
with extended downlink CP in a serving cell, shown in table 4.2-1 \[3\],
the special subframe of the serving cell is excluded from the HARQ-ACK
codebook size determination.

\- for special subframe configurations 1, 2, 6, and 7 and slot-PDSCH,
the second slot of DwPTS of the serving cell is excluded from the
HARQ-ACK codebook size determination.

For FDD-TDD and the primary cell is frame structure type 1, when a PUCCH
format 3/4/5 transmission of HARQ-ACK coincides with *a
subframe/slot/subslot configured to the UE by higher layers for
transmission of a scheduling request*, the UE shall multiplex HARQ-ACK
and SR bits on HARQ-ACK PUCCH resource as defined in Clause 5.2.3.1 in
\[4\], unless the HARQ-ACK corresponds to a subframe-PDSCH transmission
on the primary cell only or a PDCCH/EPDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release on the primary cell only, in which case the SR shall be
transmitted as for FDD with PUCCH format 1a/1b as described in Clause
7.3.1.

For FDD-TDD and for a PUSCH transmission, a UE shall not transmit
HARQ-ACK on PUSCH in subframe*/slot/subslot* *n* if the UE does not
receive PDSCH or PDCCH indicating downlink SPS release in

\- subframe *n-*![](media/image1761.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.25in"} for subframe-PDSCH or in subframe
![](media/image1569.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} for PDCCH indicating downlink SPS
release,

\- slot ![](media/image1569.wmf){width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}for slot-PDSCH,

\- subslot ![](media/image1762.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.25in"}for
subslot- PDSCH if the higher layer parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to
\'subslot\',

\- any of the subslot numbers listed in Table 10.1-1 if the higher layer
parameter *ul-TTI-Length* is set to \'slot\' and slot-PUSCH is
transmitted in subframe *m.*

When only a positive SR is transmitted, a UE shall use PUCCH Format 1
for the SR resource as defined in Clause 5.4.1 in \[3\].

When only a positive SR is transmitted using slot/subslot-PUCCH, a UE
shall use PUCCH Format 1 for the first SR resource configured by higher
layers as defined in Clause 5.4A.2 in \[3\].

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*, the FDD-TDD HARQ-ACK
reporting procedure follows the HARQ-ACK procedure described in Clause
7.3.1 for a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = dai* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = dai*.

If a UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc*, the FDD-TDD HARQ-ACK
reporting procedure follows the HARQ-ACK procedure described in Clause
7.3.1 for a UE configured with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDetermination-r13 = cc* or with higher layer parameter
*codebooksizeDeterminationsSTTI-r15 = cc*.

### 7.3.4 FDD-TDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure for primary cell frame structure type 2

When only a positive SR is transmitted, a UE shall use PUCCH Format 1
for the SR resource as defined in Clause 5.4.1 in \[3\].

When only a positive SR is transmitted using slot-PUCCH, a UE shall use
PUCCH Format 1 for the first SR resource configured by higher layers as
defined in Clause 5.4A.2 in \[3\].

The FDD-TDD HARQ-ACK reporting procedure follows the HARQ-ACK procedure
described in Clause 7.3.2.2 with the following exceptions:

\- for a serving cell with frame structure type 1, and a UE not
configured to monitor PDCCH/EPDCCH in another serving cell for
scheduling the serving cell, ![](media/image1763.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"}is defined in Table 10.1.3A-1, else
![](media/image1763.wmf){width="0.15625in"
height="0.13541666666666666in"}is defined in Table 10.1.3.1-1C if the UE
is configured with higher layer parameter *shortTTI* for slot-PDSCH, in
Table 10.1.3.1-1B if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter
*shortProcessingTime* and the corresponding PDCCH with CRC scrambled by
C-RNTI is in the UE-specific search space for subframe-PDSCH and in
Table 10.1.3.1-1 otherwise.

\- for a serving cell with frame structure type 1 and a UE not
configured to monitor PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH in another serving cell for
scheduling the serving cell, if the DL-reference UL/DL configuration of
the serving cell in Table 10.1.3A-1 belongs to
{2,3,4},![](media/image1764.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.2708333333333333in"}is determined as in Clause 7.3.2.2 for a
serving cell with DL-reference UL/DL configuration {5}.

> \- for a serving cell with frame structure type 1, and if PUCCH format
> 3 is configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK, and for a PUSCH
> transmission in a subframe/slot *n* performed based on a detected
> PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B, the UE shall assume
> the UL-reference UL/DL configuration of the serving cell belongs to
> {1,2,3,4,5,6}.
>
> \- for a serving cell with frame structure type 1, and if DL-reference
> UL/DL configuration of each of the serving cells belongs to
> {0,1,2,3,4,6}, and if PUCCH format 1b with channel selection is
> configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK and for two configured serving
> cells, the UE shall assume the UL-reference UL/DL configuration of the
> serving cell belongs to {1,2,3,4,6}.
>
> \- for a serving cell with frame structure type 1, a value
> ![](media/image1765.wmf){width="0.3229166666666667in"
> height="0.22916666666666666in"}is determined by the Downlink
> Assignment Index (DAI) in DCI format 0/4/7-0A/7-0B corresponding to a
> PUSCH on the serving cell according to Table 7.3-Z in subframe/slot
> ![](media/image1766.wmf){width="0.3958333333333333in"
> height="0.19791666666666666in"}, where
> ![](media/image1767.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
> height="0.19791666666666666in"}=4.

\- for a serving cell with frame structure type 1, when PUCCH format 3
is configured for transmission of HARQ-ACK, if the DL-reference UL/DL
configuration of the serving cell is 0, the HARQ-ACK for a PDSCH
transmission with a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH in subframe/slot
![](media/image1768.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is associated with
![](media/image1769.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.28125in"} if transmission mode configured in the *c*-th
serving cell supports one transport block or spatial HARQ-ACK bundling
is applied, or associated with ![](media/image1655.wmf){width="0.75in"
height="0.28125in"} and ![](media/image1770.wmf){width="0.71875in"
height="0.28125in"} otherwise, where *DAI(k)* is the value of DAI in DCI
format 1A/1B/1D/1/2/2A/2B/2C/2D detected in subframe
![](media/image1771.wmf){width="0.3333333333333333in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, ![](media/image1658.wmf){width="0.75in"
height="0.28125in"} and ![](media/image1772.wmf){width="0.71875in"
height="0.28125in"} are the HARQ-ACK feedback for codeword 0 and
codeword 1, respectively. For the case with
![](media/image1660.wmf){width="0.5729166666666666in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, the HARQ-ACK associated with a PDSCH
transmission without a corresponding PDCCH/EPDCCH/SPDCCH is mapped to
![](media/image1661.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"}. The HARQ-ACK feedback bits without any
detected PDSCH transmission are set to NACK.
