6 Downlink
==========

6.1 Overview
------------

The smallest time-frequency unit for downlink transmission is denoted a
resource element and is defined in clause 6.2.2.

A subset of the downlink subframes in a radio frame can be configured as
MBSFN subframes by higher layers. For
$\Delta f \approx 0.37\text{\ kHz}$ the MBSFN region is defined as one
slot of 3 ms. Except for $\Delta f \approx 0.37\ \text{kHz}$, each MBSFN
subframe is divided into a non-MBSFN region and an MBSFN region.

\- For subframes using , the non-MBSFN region spans the first one or two
OFDM symbols in an MBSFN subframe where the length of the non-MBSFN
region is given according to Clause 6.7.

\- For subframes using , $\Delta f = 2.5\text{\ kHz}$, , or slots using
$\Delta f \approx 0.37\ \text{kHz}$, the non-MBSFN region is of zero
size.

\- The MBSFN region in an MBSFN subframe is defined as the OFDM symbols
not used for the non-MBSFN region.

For an MBMS-dedicated cell, subframes where PSS/SSS/PBCH or PDSCH
carrying system information are transmitted with are non-MBSFN
subframes.

For frame structure type 3, MBSFN configuration shall not be applied to
downlink subframes in which at least one OFDM symbol is not occupied or
discovery signal is transmitted.

Unless otherwise specified, transmission in each downlink subframe shall
use the same cyclic prefix length as used for downlink subframe \#0.

### 6.1.1 Physical channels

A downlink physical channel corresponds to a set of resource elements
carrying information originating from higher layers and is the interface
defined between 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\] and the present document
3GPP TS 36.211.\
The following downlink physical channels are defined:

\- Physical Downlink Shared Channel, PDSCH

\- Physical Broadcast Channel, PBCH

\- Physical Multicast Channel, PMCH

\- Physical Control Format Indicator Channel, PCFICH

\- Physical Downlink Control Channel, PDCCH

\- Physical Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel, PHICH

\- Enhanced Physical Downlink Control Channel, EPDCCH

\- MTC Physical Downlink Control Channel, MPDCCH

\- Short Physical Downlink Control Channel, SPDCCH

### 6.1.2 Physical signals

A downlink physical signal corresponds to a set of resource elements
used by the physical layer but does not carry information originating
from higher layers. The following downlink physical signals are defined:

\- Reference signal

\- Synchronization signal

\- Discovery signal

\- MTC wake-up signal, MWUS

6.2 Slot structure and physical resource elements
-------------------------------------------------

### 6.2.1 Resource grid

The transmitted signal in each slot is described by one or several
resource grids of subcarriers and OFDM symbols. *The resource grid
structure is illustrated in Figure 6.2.2-1.* The quantity depends on the
downlink transmission bandwidth configured in the cell and shall fulfil

where and are the smallest and largest downlink bandwidths,
respectively, supported by the current version of this specification.

The set of allowed values for is given by 3GPP TS 36.104 \[6\]. The
number of OFDM symbols in a slot depends on the cyclic prefix length and
subcarrier spacing configured and is given in Table 6.2.3-1.

An antenna port is defined such that the channel over which a symbol on
the antenna port is conveyed can be inferred from the channel over which
another symbol on the same antenna port is conveyed. For MBSFN reference
signals, positioning reference signals, UE-specific reference signals
associated with PDSCH, demodulation reference signals associated with
SPDCCH, and demodulation reference signals associated with EPDCCH, there
are limits given below within which the channel can be inferred from one
symbol to another symbol on the same antenna port. There is one resource
grid per antenna port. *The set of antenna ports supported depends on
the reference signal configuration in the cell:*

*-* Cell-specific reference signals support a configuration of one, two,
or four antenna ports and are transmitted on antenna ports ,, and ,
respectively.

\- MBSFN reference signals are transmitted on antenna port. The channel
over which a symbol on antenna portis conveyed can be inferred from the
channel over which another symbol on the same antenna port is conveyed
only if the two symbols correspond to subframes (slots in case of 0.37
kHz subcarrier spacing) of the same MBSFN area.

\- UE-specific reference signals associated with PDSCH intended for
non-BL/CE UE are transmitted on antenna port(s) , , , or one or several
of . The channel over which a symbol on one of these antenna ports is
conveyed can be inferred from the channel over which another symbol on
the same antenna port is conveyed only if the two symbols are within the
same subframe and in the same PRG when PRB bundling is used or in the
same PRB pair when PRB bundling is not used.

\- UE-specific reference signals associated with PDSCH intended for
BL/CE UE are transmitted on one or several of antenna port(s) . The
channel over which a symbol on one of these antenna ports is conveyed
can be inferred from the channel over which another symbol on the same
antenna port is conveyed only if the two symbols are in the same set of
consecutive subframes and have the same PRB index.

\- Demodulation reference signals associated with EPDCCH are transmitted
on one or several of . The channel over which a symbol on one of these
antenna ports is conveyed can be inferred from the channel over which
another symbol on the same antenna port is conveyed only if the two
symbols are in the same PRB pair.

\- Demodulation reference signals associated with MPDCCH are transmitted
on one or several of . The channel over which a symbol on one of these
antenna ports is conveyed can be inferred from the channel over which
another symbol on the same antenna port is conveyed only if the two
symbols are in the same set of consecutive subframes and have the same
PRB index.

\- Demodulation reference signals associated with SPDCCH are transmitted
on .

\- Positioning reference signals are transmitted on antenna port. The
channel over which a symbol on antenna port is conveyed can be inferred
from the channel over which another symbol on the same antenna port is
conveyed only within one positioning reference signal occasion
consisting of consecutive downlink subframes, where is configured by
higher layers.

\- CSI reference signals support a configuration of 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16,
20, 24, 28, or 32 antenna ports and are transmitted on antenna ports , ,
, , , , , , and, respectively.

Two antenna ports are said to be quasi co-located if the large-scale
properties of the channel over which a symbol on one antenna port is
conveyed can be inferred from the channel over which a symbol on the
other antenna port is conveyed. The large-scale properties include one
or more of delay spread, Doppler spread, Doppler shift, average gain,
and average delay.

### 6.2.2 Resource elements

Each element in the resource grid for antenna port is called a resource
element and is uniquely identified by the index pair in a slot where and
*are the indices in the frequency and time domains, respectively.*
Resource element on antenna port corresponds to the complex value*.\
When there is no risk for confusion, or no particular antenna port is
specified, the index* may be dropped.

Figure 6.2.2-1: Downlink resource grid

### 6.2.3 Resource blocks

Resource blocks are used to describe the mapping of certain physical
channels to resource elements. Physical and virtual resource blocks are
defined.

A physical resource block is defined as consecutive OFDM symbols in the
time domain and consecutive subcarriers in the frequency domain, where
and are given by Table 6.2.3-1. A physical resource block thus consists
of resource elements, corresponding to one slot in the time domain and
180 kHz in the frequency domain.

Physical resource blocks are numbered from 0 to in the frequency domain.
The relation between the physical resource block number in the frequency
domain and resource elements in a slot is given by

Table 6.2.3-1: Physical resource blocks parameters

  Configuration                                                          
  ------------------------ --------------------------------------- ----- ---
  Normal cyclic prefix                                             12    7
  Extended cyclic prefix                                                 6
                                                                   24    3
                           $$\Delta f = 2.5\text{\ kHz}$$          72    1
                                                                   144   1
                           $$\Delta f \approx 0.37\text{\ kHz}$$   486   1

Except for subcarrier spacing $\Delta f = 1.25\ \text{kHz}$ and
$\Delta f \approx 0.37\ \text{kHz}$, a physical resource-block pair is
defined as the two physical resource blocks in one subframe having the
same physical resource-block number .

A virtual resource block is of the same size as a physical resource
block. Two types of virtual resource blocks are defined:

\- Virtual resource blocks of localized type

\- Virtual resource blocks of distributed type

For each type of virtual resource blocks, a pair of virtual resource
blocks over two slots in a subframe is assigned together by a single
virtual resource block number, .

#### 6.2.3.1 Virtual resource blocks of localized type

Virtual resource blocks of localized type are mapped directly to
physical resource blocks such that virtual resource block corresponds to
physical resource block. Virtual resource blocks are numbered from 0 to,
where .

#### 6.2.3.2 Virtual resource blocks of distributed type

Virtual resource blocks of distributed type are mapped to physical
resource blocks as described below.

Table 6.2.3.2-1: RB gap values

  System BW ()   Gap ()         
  -------------- -------------- --------------
                 1^st^ Gap ()   2^nd^ Gap ()
  6-10                          N/A
  11             4              N/A
  12-19          8              N/A
  20-26          12             N/A
  27-44          18             N/A
  45-49          27             N/A
  50-63          27             9
  64-79          32             16
  80-110         48             16

The parameter is given by Table 6.2.3.2-1. For , only one gap value is
defined and . For , two gap values **and** are defined. Whether **or is
signaled as part of** the downlink scheduling assignment as described in
3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\].

Virtual resource blocks of distributed type are numbered from 0 to,
where for and for .

Consecutive VRB numbers compose a unit of VRB number interleaving, where
for and for . Interleaving of VRB numbers of each interleaving unit is
performed with 4 columns and rows, where , and is RBG size as described
in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\]. VRB numbers are written row by row in the
rectangular matrix, and read out column by column. nulls are inserted in
the last rows of the 2^nd^ and 4^th^ column, where . Nulls are ignored
when reading out. The VRB numbers mapping to PRB numbers including
interleaving is derived as follows:

For even slot number ;

,

where ,

and ,

where and is obtained from the downlink scheduling assignment as
described in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].

For odd slot number ;

Then, for all ;

.

Virtual resource blocks of distributed type are not applicable to BL/CE
UEs.

### 6.2.4 Resource-element groups (REGs)

Resource-element groups are used for defining the mapping of control
channels to resource elements.

A resource-element group is represented by the index pair of the
resource element with the lowest index in the group with all resource
elements in the group having the same value of . The set of resource
elements in a resource-element group depends on the number of
cell-specific reference signals configured as described below with , .

\- In the first OFDM symbol of the first slot in a subframe the two
resource-element groups in physical resource block consist of resource
elements with and , respectively.

\- In the second OFDM symbol of the first slot in a subframe in case of
one or two cell-specific reference signals configured, the three
resource-element groups in physical resource block consist of resource
elements with , and , respectively.

\- In the second OFDM symbol of the first slot in a subframe in case of
four cell-specific reference signals configured, the two
resource-element groups in physical resource block consist of resource
elements with and , respectively.

\- In the third OFDM symbol of the first slot in a subframe, the three
resource-element groups in physical resource block consist of resource
elements with , and , respectively.

\- In the fourth OFDM symbol of the first slot in a subframe in case of
normal cyclic prefix, the three resource-element groups in physical
resource block consist of resource elements with , and , respectively.

\- In the fourth OFDM symbol of the first slot in a subframe in case of
extended cyclic prefix, the two resource-element groups in physical
resource block consist of resource elements with and , respectively.

Mapping of a symbol-quadruplet onto a resource-element group represented
by resource-element is defined such that elements are mapped to resource
elements of the resource-element group not used for cell-specific
reference signals in increasing order of and . In case a single
cell-specific reference signal is configured, cell-specific reference
signals shall be assumed to be present on antenna ports 0 and 1 for the
purpose of mapping a symbol-quadruplet to a resource-element group,
otherwise the number of cell-specific reference signals shall be assumed
equal to the actual number of antenna ports used for cell-specific
reference signals. The UE shall not make any assumptions about resource
elements assumed to be reserved for reference signals but not used for
transmission of a reference signal.

For frame structure type 3, if the higher layer parameter
*subframeStartPosition* indicates \'s07\' and the downlink transmission
starts in the second slot of a subframe, the above definition applies to
the second slot of that subframe instead of the first slot.

### 6.2.4A Enhanced Resource-Element Groups (EREGs)

EREGs are used for defining the mapping of enhanced control channels to
resource elements.

There are 16 EREGs, numbered from 0 to 15, per physical resource block
pair. Number all resource elements, except resource elements carrying
DM-RS for antenna ports for normal cyclic prefix or for extended cyclic
prefix, in a physical resource-block pair cyclically from 0 to 15 in an
increasing order of first frequency, then time. All resource elements
with number in that physical resource-block pair constitutes EREG number
.

For frame structure type 3, if the higher layer parameter
*subframeStartPosition* indicates \'s07\' and the downlink transmission
starts in the second slot of a subframe, the above definition applies to
the second slot of that subframe instead of the first slot.

### 6.2.4B Short Resource-Element Groups (SREGs)

Short resource-element groups (SREGs) are used for defining the mapping
of short control channels to resource elements.

One SREG is composed of all resource elements in a physical resource
block in a given OFDM symbol. The set of resource elements in an SREG in
physical resource block consist of resource elements with with , , all
having the same value of .

### 6.2.5 Guard period for half-duplex FDD operation

For type A half-duplex FDD operation, a guard period is created by the
UE by

\- not receiving the last part of a downlink subframe immediately
preceding an uplink subframe from the same UE.

For type B half-duplex FDD operation, guard periods, each referred to as
a half-duplex guard subframe, are created by the UE by

\- not receiving a downlink subframe immediately preceding an uplink
subframe from the same UE, and

\- not receiving a downlink subframe immediately following an uplink
subframe from the same UE.

### 6.2.6 Guard Period for TDD Operation

For frame structure type 2, the GP field in Figure 4.2-1 serves as a
guard period.

### 6.2.7 Narrowbands and widebands

A narrowband is defined as six non-overlapping consecutive physical
resource blocks in the frequency domain. The total number of downlink
narrowbands in the downlink transmission bandwidth configured in the
cell is given by

The narrowbands are numbered in order of increasing physical
resource-block number where narrowband is composed of physical
resource-block indices

where

and $\overline{\mathbf{i}}$ is according to Table 6.2.7-1 for the
narrowbands used for PDSCH resource allocation in CEModeB if the
higher-layer parameter *ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig* is set,
otherwise $\overline{\mathbf{i}} = 0$.

If , a wideband is defined as four non-overlapping narrowbands in the
frequency domain. The total number of downlink widebands in the downlink
transmission bandwidth configured in the cell is given by

and the widebands are numbered in order of increasing narrowband number
where wideband is composed of narrowband indices where .

If , then and the single wideband is composed of the non-overlapping
narrowband(s).

Table 6.2.7-1: Shift of narrowbands for PDSCH resource allocation in
CEModeB when higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig* is set.

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **System bandwidth**             | **Shift of narrowband**          |
| $\ma                             | $\overline{\mathbf{i}}$          |
| thbf{N}_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}}$ |                                  |
+==================================+==================================+
| 6                                | 0                                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 15                               | -1 for narrowband \#0;           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 for narrowband \#1             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 25                               | 0 for narrowbands 0, 1;          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- 1 for narrowband 2, 3         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 50                               | \- 1 for all narrowbands         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 75                               | -1 for narrowbands 0, 1, ..., 5; |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 for narrowbands 6, 7, ..., 11  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 100                              | -2 for all narrowbands.          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

### 6.2.8 Guard period for narrowband and wideband retuning

For BL/CE UEs, a guard period of at most OFDM symbols is created for
Rx-to-Rx and Tx-to-Rx frequency retuning between two consecutive
subframes.

\- If the higher layer parameter *ce-RetuningSymbols* is set, then
equals *ce-RetuningSymbols*, otherwise .

\- If the higher layer parameter *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* is set
to 5 MHz, then the rules for guard period creation defined in the
remainder of this clause apply not for retuning between narrowbands but
for retuning between widebands and for transmissions involving multiple
widebands.

\- If the UE is configured with CEModeA and higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig*, the rules for guard period
creation defined in the remainder of this clause apply for retuning
between tuning narrowbands defined for the allocation resources not
fully within one narrowband defined in Clause 6.2.7 as the consecutive
6PRBs starting from $\text{RB}_{\text{start}}$ if
$\text{RB}_{\text{start}}$ is aligned with RBG boundary, or the
consecutive 6PRBs ending at
$\text{RB}_{\text{start}} + L_{\text{CRBs}} - 1$ if
$\text{RB}_{\text{start}} + L_{\text{CRBs}} - 1$ is aligned with RBG
boundary, where $\text{RB}_{\text{start}}$ and $L_{\text{CRBs}}$ are
defined in Table 7.1.6.3-2 \[4\].

\- If the UE is configured with CEModeB and higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig*, the rules for guard period
creation defined in the remainder of this clause apply for retuning
between the tuning narrowband defined as the narrowband shifted
according to Table 6.2.7-1.

\- If the UE retunes from a first downlink narrowband to a second
downlink narrowband with a different center frequency, a guard period is
created by the UE not receiving at most OFDM symbols in the second
narrowband.

\- If the UE retunes from a first uplink narrowband to a second downlink
narrowband with a different center frequency for frame structure type 2,
a guard period is created by the UE not receiving at most OFDM symbols
in the second narrowband.

Furthermore, for BL/CE UEs configured with the higher layer parameter
*srs-UpPtsAdd*, a guard period of at most OFDM or SC-FDMA symbols is
created for Rx-to-Tx frequency retuning within a special subframe for
frame structure type 2. Primarily, the TDD guard period (GP) specified
in clause 4.2 serves as the guard period for narrowband retuning, and if
GP is not sufficient then additional guard period is created by the UE
according to:

\- If SRS is configured to be transmitted in the first UpPTS symbol, the
additional guard period is created by the UE not receiving at most DwPTS
symbols in the first narrowband.

\- If SRS is configured to be transmitted in the second UpPTS symbol but
not in the first UpPTS symbol, the additional guard period is created by
the UE primarily by not transmitting the first UpPTS symbol and (if )
secondarily by not receiving the last DwPTS symbol.

6.3 General structure for downlink physical channels
----------------------------------------------------

This clause describes a general structure, applicable to more than one
physical channel.

The baseband signal representing a downlink physical channel is defined
in terms of the following steps:

\- scrambling of coded bits in each of the codewords to be transmitted
on a physical channel

\- modulation of scrambled bits to generate complex-valued modulation
symbols

\- mapping of the complex-valued modulation symbols onto one or several
transmission layers

\- precoding of the complex-valued modulation symbols on each layer for
transmission on the antenna ports

\- mapping of complex-valued modulation symbols for each antenna port to
resource elements

\- generation of complex-valued time-domain OFDM signal for each antenna
port

Figure 6.3-1: Overview of physical channel processing

### 6.3.1 Scrambling

For each codeword , the block of bits , where is the number of bits in
codeword transmitted on the physical channel in one
subframe/slot/subslot, shall be scrambled prior to modulation, resulting
in a block of scrambled bits according to

where the scrambling sequence is given by clause 7.2. The scrambling
sequence generator shall be initialised at the start of each subframe,
where the initialisation value of depends on the transport channel type
according to

where corresponds to the RNTI associated with the PDSCH transmission as
described in clause 7.1 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].

For BL/CE UEs, the same scrambling sequence is applied per subframe to
PDSCH for a given block of subframes. The subframe number of the first
subframe in each block of consecutive subframes, denoted as , satisfies
. For the block of subframes, the scrambling sequence generator shall be
initialised with

where

and is the absolute subframe number of the first downlink subframe
intended for PDSCH. The PDSCH transmission spans consecutive subframes
including subframes that are not BL/CE DL subframes where the PDSCH
transmission is postponed.

For BL/CE UEs,

\- if the PDSCH is carrying SIB1-BR

\-

\- else if the PDSCH is carrying SI message (except for SIB1-BR) or if
the PDSCH transmission is associated with P-RNTI or SC-RNTI:

\- for frame structure type 1 and for frame structure type 2

\- otherwise

\- for UEs assuming CEModeA (according to the definition in Clause 12 of
\[4\]) or configured with CEModeA

\- for frame structure type 1 and for frame structure type 2 for UEs
assuming CEModeB (according to the definition in Clause 12 of \[4\]) or
configured with CEModeB

For PDSCH with a subframe duration, up to two codewords can be
transmitted in one subframe, i.e., . In the case of single codeword
transmission, is equal to zero.

### 6.3.2 Modulation

For each codeword , the block of scrambled bits shall be modulated as
described in clause 7.1 using one of the modulation schemes in Table
6.3.2-1, resulting in a block of complex-valued modulation symbols .

Table 6.3.2-1: Modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ -------------------------------------
  PDSCH              QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, 256QAM, 1024QAM
  PMCH               QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, 256QAM

### 6.3.3 Layer mapping

The complex-valued modulation symbols for each of the codewords to be
transmitted are mapped onto one or several layers. Complex-valued
modulation symbols for codeword shall be mapped onto the layers , where
is the number of layers and is the number of modulation symbols per
layer, unless and \"MUST interference presence and power ratio
(*MUSTIdx*)\" signalled in the associated DCI is \'00\' for only one
codeword in which case , where for the layer for which *MUSTIdx* is
\'00\', and for the layer for which *MUSTIdx* is not \'00\'. The value
of is determined from Table 6.3.3-1 using *MUSTIdx* and the modulation
order of the codeword for which *MUSTIdx* is not \'00\'.

Table 6.3.3-1: Values for

  *MUSTIdx*   *Modulation order*               
  ----------- -------------------- ----------- ---------
              QPSK                 16QAM       64QAM
  01          8/10                 32/42       128/170
  10          50/58                144.5/167   40.5/51
  11          264.5/289            128/138     288/330

#### 6.3.3.1 Layer mapping for transmission on a single antenna port

For transmission on a single antenna port, a single layer is used, , and
the mapping is defined by

with .

#### 6.3.3.2 Layer mapping for spatial multiplexing

For spatial multiplexing, the layer mapping shall be done according to
Table 6.3.3.2-1. The number of layers is less than or equal to the
number of antenna ports used for transmission of the physical channel.
The case of a single codeword mapped to multiple layers is only
applicable when the number of cell-specific reference signals is four or
when the number of UE-specific reference signals is two or larger. For
subslot/slot-PDSCH, the number of codewords is always one.

Table 6.3.3.2-1: Codeword-to-layer mapping for spatial multiplexing

  Number of layers   Number of codewords   Codeword-to-layer mapping   
  ------------------ --------------------- --------------------------- --
  1                  1                                                 
  2                  1                                                 
  2                  2                                                 
                                                                       
  3                  1                                                 
  3                  2                                                 
                                                                       
  4                  1                                                 
  4                  2                                                 
                                                                       
  5                  2                                                 
                                                                       
  6                  2                                                 
                                                                       
  7                  2                                                 
                                                                       
  8                  2                                                 
                                                                       

#### 6.3.3.3 Layer mapping for transmit diversity

For transmit diversity, the layer mapping shall be done according to
Table 6.3.3.3-1. There is only one codeword and the number of layers is
equal to the number of antenna ports used for transmission of the
physical channel.

Table 6.3.3.3-1: Codeword-to-layer mapping for transmit diversity

  Number of layers   Number of codewords   Codeword-to-layer mapping   
  ------------------ --------------------- --------------------------- ------------------------------------------
  2                  1                                                 
  4                  1                                                 If two null symbols shall be appended to

### 6.3.4 Precoding

The precoder takes as input a block of vectors, from the layer mapping
and generates a block of vectors, to be mapped onto resources on each of
the antenna ports, where represents the signal for antenna port.

#### 6.3.4.1 Precoding for transmission on a single antenna port

For transmission on a single antenna port, precoding is defined by

where is the number of the single antenna port used for transmission of
the physical channel and , .

#### 6.3.4.2 Precoding for spatial multiplexing using antenna ports with cell-specific reference signals

Precoding for spatial multiplexing using antenna ports with
cell-specific reference signals is only used in combination with layer
mapping for spatial multiplexing as described in clause 6.3.3.2. Spatial
multiplexing supports two or four antenna ports and the set of antenna
ports used is or, respectively.

##### 6.3.4.2.1 Precoding without CDD

Without Cyclic Delay Diversity (CDD), precoding for spatial multiplexing
is defined by

where the precoding matrix is of size and , .

For spatial multiplexing, the values of shall be selected among the
precoder elements in the codebook configured in the eNodeB and the UE.
The eNodeB can further confine the precoder selection in the UE to a
subset of the elements in the codebook using codebook subset
restrictions. The configured codebook shall be selected from Table
6.3.4.2.3-1 or 6.3.4.2.3-2.

##### 6.3.4.2.2 Precoding for large delay CDD

For large-delay CDD, precoding for spatial multiplexing is defined by

where the precoding matrixis of size and , . The diagonal size-matrix
supporting cyclic delay diversity and the size- matrix are both given by
Table 6.3.4.2.2-1 for different numbers of layers .

The values of the precoding matrix shall be selected among the precoder
elements in the codebook configured in the eNodeB and the UE. The eNodeB
can further confine the precoder selection in the UE to a subset of the
elements in the codebook using codebook subset restriction. The
configured codebook shall be selected from Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 or
6.3.4.2.3-2.

For 2 antenna ports, the precoder is selected according to where denotes
the precoding matrix corresponding to precoder index 0 in Table
6.3.4.2.3-1.

For 4 antenna ports, the UE may assume that the eNodeB cyclically
assigns different precoders to different vectors on the physical
downlink shared channel as follows. A different precoder is used every
vectors, where denotes the number of transmission layers in the case of
spatial multiplexing. In particular, the precoder is selected according
to , where is the precoder index given by and denote precoder matrices
corresponding to precoder indices 12,13,14 and 15, respectively, in
Table 6.3.4.2.3-2.

Table 6.3.4.2.2-1: Large-delay cyclic delay diversity

  Number of layers      
  ------------------ -- --
  2                     
  3                     
  4                     

##### 6.3.4.2.3 Codebook for precoding and CSI reporting

For transmission on two antenna ports, , and for the purpose of CSI
reporting based on two antenna ports or , the precoding matrix shall be
selected from Table 6.3.4.2.3-1 or a subset thereof. For the closed-loop
spatial multiplexing transmission mode defined in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\],
the codebook index 0 is not used when the number of layers is .

Table 6.3.4.2.3-1: Codebook for transmission on antenna ports and for
CSI reporting based on antenna ports or

  Codebook index   Number of layers   
  ---------------- ------------------ ----
                   1                  2
  0                                   
  1                                   
  2                                   
  3                                   \-

For transmission on four antenna ports, , the precoding matrix shall be
selected from Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 or a subset thereof. For the purpose of
CSI reporting based on four antenna ports or , the precoding matrix
shall be selected from Table 6.3.4.2.3-2 or a subset thereof except for
*alternativeCodeBookEnabledFor4TX-r12 =TRUE* in which case the precoding
matrix shall be selected from Tables 7.2.4-0A, 7.2.4-0B, 7.2.4-0C,
7.2.4-0D in \[4\] or a subset thereof, and except for
*advancedCodebookEnabled = TRUE* in which case the precoding matrix
![](media/image259.wmf){width="0.17430555555555555in" height="0.1625in"}
shall be selected from Table 7.2.4-17C in \[4\] or a subset thereof. The
quantity denotes the matrix defined by the columns given by the set from
the expression where is the identity matrix and the vector is given by
Table 6.3.4.2.3-2.

Table 6.3.4.2.3-2: Codebook for transmission on antenna ports and for
CSI reporting based on antenna ports or

  Codebook index      Number of layers           
  ---------------- -- ------------------ --- --- ---
                      1                  2   3   4
  0                                              
  1                                              
  2                                              
  3                                              
  4                                              
  5                                              
  6                                              
  7                                              
  8                                              
  9                                              
  10                                             
  11                                             
  12                                             
  13                                             
  14                                             
  15                                             

For the purpose of CSI reporting for 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, and 32 CSI
reference signals the codebooks are given in clause 7.2.4 of
3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].

#### 6.3.4.3 Precoding for transmit diversity

Precoding for transmit diversity is only used in combination with layer
mapping for transmit diversity as described in clause 6.3.3.3. The
precoding operation for transmit diversity is defined for two and four
antenna ports.

For transmission on two antenna ports, , the output , of the precoding
operation is defined by

for with .

For rank=1 transmission on two antenna ports, , the output , of the
precoding operation is defined by

where .

For transmission on four antenna ports,, the output , of the precoding
operation is defined by

for with .

#### 6.3.4.4 Precoding for spatial multiplexing using antenna ports with UE-specific reference signals 

Precoding for spatial multiplexing using antenna ports with UE-specific
reference signals is only used in combination with layer mapping for
spatial multiplexing as described in clause 6.3.3.2. Spatial
multiplexing using antenna ports with UE-specific reference signals
supports up to eight antenna ports.

If the higher-layer parameter *dmrs-tableAlt* is set to TRUE and the set
of antenna ports is used for two layers transmission, the precoding
operation for transmission on the two antenna ports is defined by

where , .

If the higher-layer parameter *semiOpenLoop* is set to TRUE for subframe
PDSCH or the higher-layer parameter *semiOpenLoop-STTI* is set to TRUE
for slot/subslot PDSCH and the set of antenna ports is used for rank=2
transmission, the precoding operation for transmission on the two
antenna ports is defined by

where and .

If the number of codewords is two and the DCI associated with the
scheduled PDSCH is of Format 2D and the \'PDSCH RE Mapping and
Quasi-Co-Location indicator\' field in the DCI indicates a higher-layer
configured *PDSCH-RE-MappingQCL containing two sets of parameters,* the
precoding operation for transmission on
![](media/image368.wmf){width="0.11597222222222223in"
height="0.13958333333333334in"} antenna ports is defined by

![](media/image369.wmf){width="1.3722222222222222in"
height="0.7444444444444445in"}

where ![](media/image370.wmf){width="1.0930555555555554in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"},
![](media/image371.wmf){width="0.9069444444444444in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"} and set of antenna ports
![](media/image372.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.24444444444444444in"} used is given by Table 6.3.4.4-1.

Table 6.3.4.4-1: Layer-to-port mapping for two-codeword transmission
when *PDSCH-RE-MappingQCL contains two sets of parameters*

  Number of layers ![](media/image373.wmf){width="0.12777777777777777in" height="0.13958333333333334in"}   Layer-to-port mapping ![](media/image374.wmf){width="0.9069444444444444in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  2                                                                                                        ![](media/image375.wmf){width="0.37222222222222223in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}
  3                                                                                                        ![](media/image376.wmf){width="0.6395833333333333in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}
  4                                                                                                        ![](media/image377.wmf){width="0.8375in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}
  5                                                                                                        ![](media/image378.wmf){width="1.08125in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}
  6                                                                                                        ![](media/image379.wmf){width="1.3256944444444445in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}
  7                                                                                                        ![](media/image380.wmf){width="1.58125in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}
  8                                                                                                        ![](media/image381.wmf){width="1.8375in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}

Otherwise, the set of antenna ports used is and the precoding operation
for transmission on antenna ports is defined by

where , .

### 6.3.5 Mapping to resource elements

For each of the antenna ports used for transmission of the physical
channel, the block of complex-valued symbols shall conform to the
downlink power allocation specified in clause 5.2 in
3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\] and be mapped in sequence starting with to resource
elements which meet all of the following criteria in the current
subframe:

\- they are in the physical resource blocks corresponding to the virtual
resource blocks assigned for transmission, and

\- they are not used for transmission of the core part of PBCH,
synchronization signals, and

\- they are assumed by the UE not to be used for cell-specific reference
signals, where the positions of the cell-specific reference signals are
given by clause 6.10.1.2 with the number of antenna ports for and the
frequency shift of cell-specific reference signals derived as described
in clause 6.10.1.2 4, and

The mapping to resource elements on antenna port not reserved for other
purposes shall be in increasing order of first the index over the
assigned physical resource blocks and then the index, starting with the
first slot in a subframe.

For BL/CE UEs, if the higher layer parameter
*ce-punctured-subcarriers-DL* is configured, then in case of MPDCCH or
PDSCH transmission associated with C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI,

\- The parameter *ce-punctured-subcarriers-DL* indicates the number of
subcarriers (1 or 2) and their position (lower or higher edge) to
puncture at the downlink narrowband edges:

\- If the value is \'00\', then the number of punctured subcarriers on
the higher edge of narrowbands above the DC subcarrier is 2 and the
number of punctured subcarriers on the higher edge of narrowbands below
the DC subcarrier is 1.

\- If the value is \'01\', then the number of punctured subcarriers on
the higher edge of narrowbands above the DC subcarrier is 1 and the
number of punctured subcarriers on the higher edge of narrowbands below
the DC subcarrier is 0.

\- If the value is \'10\', then the number of punctured subcarriers on
the lower edge of narrowbands above the DC subcarrier is 0 and the
number of punctured subcarriers on the lower edge of narrowbands below
the DC subcarrier is 1.

\- If the value is \'11\', then the number of punctured subcarriers on
the lower edge of narrowbands above the DC subcarrier is 1 and the
number of punctured subcarriers on the lower edge of narrowbands below
the DC subcarrier is 2.

\- In the mapping to resource elements, when a subcarrier *k* is
punctured according to the above, the resource elements *(k,l)* shall be
counted but not used for transmission.

\- The subcarrier puncturing is applied to transmission of the following
physical signals and channels when the transmission is aligned with a
narrowband edge.

\- MPDCCH

\- PDSCH

\- CSI reference signals

\- No subcarrier puncturing is applied to transmissions that are not
aligned with a narrowband edge.

6.4 Physical downlink shared channel
------------------------------------

The physical downlink shared channel shall be processed and mapped to
resource elements as described in clause 6.3 with the following
additions and exceptions:

\- In resource blocks in which UE-specific reference signals are not
transmitted, the PDSCH shall be transmitted on the same set of antenna
ports as the PBCH, which is one of , , or .

\- In resource blocks in which UE-specific reference signals are
transmitted, the PDSCH shall be transmitted on antenna port(s) ,,, , , ,
, or the antenna ports listed in Table 6.3.4.4-1, where is the number of
layers used for transmission of the PDSCH.

\- If PDSCH is transmitted in MBSFN subframes as defined in
3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], the PDSCH shall be transmitted on one or several
of antenna port(s) or on the antenna ports indicated in Table 6.3.4.4-1,
where is the number of layers used for transmission of the PDSCH.

\- PDSCH is not mapped to resource elements used for UE-specific
reference signals associated with PDSCH

\- In mapping to resource elements, the same positions of the
cell-specifc reference shall be assumed for all antenna ports on which
the PDSCH is transmitted and the positions of the cell-specific
reference signals are given by clause 6.10.1.2 with the number of
antenna ports and the frequency shift of the cell-specific reference
signals derived as described in clause 6.10.1.2, unless indicated
otherwise in clause 7.1.9 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\],

\- if one set of parameters for cell-specific reference signal positions
are provided by clause 7.1.9 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], the values of
these parameters are used for all antenna ports whereon the PDSCH is
transmitted in the resource blocks indicated by the relevant DCI.

\- if two sets of parameters for cell-specific reference signal
positions are provided by clause 7.1.9 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], the
first set of parameters are used for the set of antenna ports associated
with PDSCH codeword while the second set of parameters are used for the
set of antenna ports associated with PDSCH codeword , according to
codeword-to-layer mapping and layer-to-port mapping in Clause 6.3.3.2
and Clause 6.3.4.4, respectively.

\- If the DCI associated with the PDSCH uses the C-RNTI or
semi-persistent C-RNTI, PDSCH modulation symbols on the indicated
antenna ports are not mapped to resource elements assumed by the UE to
be used for transmission of:

\- zero-power CSI reference signals, where the positions of the CSI
reference signals assumed for each antenna port are given by clause
6.10.5.2. The configuration for zero power CSI reference signals is

\- obtained as described in clause 6.10.5.2 and used for all antenna
ports whereon the PDSCH is transmitted, unless indicated otherwise in
clause 7.1.9 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\]

\- if one set of parameters for zero power CSI reference signal
configuration is provided by clause 7.1.9 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], the
values of these parameters are used for all antenna ports on which the
PDSCH is transmitted in the resource blocks indicated by the
corresponding DCI scheduling the PDSCH, and

\- if two sets of parameters for zero power CSI reference signal
configuration are provided by clause 7.1.9 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], the
first set of parameters are used for the set of antenna ports associated
with PDSCH codeword while the second set of parameters are used for the
set of antenna ports associated with PDSCH codeword , according to
codeword-to-layer mapping and layer-to-port mapping in Clause 6.3.3.2
and Clause 6.3.4.4, respectively.

\- obtained by higher-layer configuration of up to five reserved CSI-RS
resources as part of the discovery signal configuration following the
procedure for zero-power CSI-RS in clause 6.10.5.2.

\- non-zero-power CSI reference signals for CSI reporting, except for
non-zero power CSI reference signals configured by
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList*, where the positions of the non-zero-power CSI
reference signals for CSI reporting are given by clause 6.10.5.2. The
configuration for non-zero power CSI reference signals is obtained as
described in clause 6.10.5.2.

\- PDSCH is not mapped to any physical resource-block pair(s) carrying
an EPDCCH associated with the PDSCH.

\- PDSCH with subframe duration on antenna port 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
or 14 is not mapped to any physical resource-block pair(s) carrying PBCH
or synchronization signals.

\- Frame structure type 1, PDSCH on antenna port 5 is not mapped to any
physical resource-block pair(s) carrying PBCH or synchronization
signals.

\- Frame structure type 2, PDSCH on antenna port 5 is not mapped to any
physical resource-block pair(s) carrying PBCH.

\- For frame structure type 1 and 2, the index in the first slot in a
subframe fulfils where is given by clause 7.1.6.4 of
3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].

\- For frame structure type 3,

\- if the higher layer parameter *subframeStartPosition* indicates
\'s07\' and the downlink transmission starts in the second slot of a
subframe

\- the index in the second slot in a subframe fulfils where is given by
clause 7.1.6.4 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\],

\- otherwise

\- the index in the first slot in a subframe fulfils where is given by
clause 7.1.6.4 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\],

\- In mapping to resource elements, if the DCI associated with the PDSCH
uses the C-RNTI or semi-persistent C-RNTI, and transmit diversity
according to clause 6.3.4.3 is used, and if the higher-layer parameter
*semiOpenLoop* is not set and if the DCI associated with the PDSCH is
not of format 7, resource elements in an OFDM symbol assumed by the UE
to contain CSI-RS shall be used in the mapping if and only if all of the
following criteria are fulfilled:

\- there is an even number of resource elements for the OFDM symbol in
each resource block assigned for transmission, and

\- the complex-valued symbols and , where is an even number, can be
mapped to resource elements and in the same OFDM symbol with .

\- In mapping to resource elements, if the DCI associated with the PDSCH
uses C-RNTI or semi-persistent C-RNTI and if the higher-layer parameter
*semiOpenLoop* is set for subframe PDSCH or the higher-layer parameter
*semiOpenLoop-STTI* is set for slot/subslot PDSCH or if the DCI
associated with the PDSCH is of format 7 and transmit diversity
according to clause 6.3.4.3 is used, a pair of resource elements , shall
be used in the mapping if and only if

\- the complex-valued symbols and can be mapped to resource elements and
in the same OFDM symbol and the same PRB with , where is an even number
and starts from 0 at the lowest subcarrier of the PRB.

### 6.4.1 Physical downlink shared channel for BL/CE UEs

For BL/CE UEs, the following additions and exceptions hold in addition
to those in clause 6.4:

\- The maximum number of allocatable PRBs for PDSCH is restricted as
follows:

\- If the PDSCH is associated with C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI and the higher
layer parameter *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* is set,

\- if the higher layer parameter *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* is set
to 20 MHz, the maximum number of allocatable PRBs for PDSCH is 96 PRBs
restricted to the narrowbands defined in clause 6.2.7;

\- if the higher layer parameter *ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* is set
to 5 MHz, the maximum number of allocatable PRBs for PDSCH is 24 PRBs
restricted to no more than four of the narrowbands defined in clause
6.2.7.

\- If the PDSCH is associated with G-RNTI and the higher layer parameter
*pdsch-MaxBandwidth-SC-MTCH* is set to 24 PRBs, the maximum number of
allocatable PRBs for PDSCH is 24 PRBs restricted to no more than four of
the narrowbands defined in clause 6.2.7.

\- For all other cases, the maximum number of allocatable PRBs for PDSCH
is 6 PRBs restricted to one of the narrowbands defined in clause 6.2.7.

\- Resource elements occupied by CSI reference signals shall be counted
in the PDSCH mapping but not used for transmission of the PDSCH.

\- Resource elements belonging to synchronization signals, the core part
of PBCH, PBCH repetitions, or resource elements reserved for reference
signals in the mapping operation of PBCH but not used for transmission
of reference signals, shall be counted in the PDSCH mapping but not used
for transmission of the PDSCH.

\- PRB pairs occupied by RSS shall be counted in the PDSCH mapping but
not used for transmission of the PDSCH.

\- For BL/CE UEs in CEModeB configured in transmission mode 9, in MBSFN
subframe(s), resource elements that correspond to the positions of
cell-specific reference signals as in subframe \#0 shall not be counted
in the PDSCH mapping and not used for transmission of the PDSCH.

\- Resource elements belonging to PRBs in which PRS is transmitted
(including PRS muted subframes) shall be counted in the PDSCH mapping
but not used for transmission of the PDSCH.

\- If the higher layer parameter *ce-punctured-subcarriers-DL* is
configured, and the DCI associated with the PDSCH uses C-RNTI or SPS
C-RNTI, and transmit diversity according to clause 6.3.4.3 is used,

\- In the mapping to resource elements, when the complex-valued symbols
![](media/image416.wmf){width="0.39166666666666666in" height="0.2in"}
and ![](media/image417.wmf){width="0.6083333333333333in"
height="0.2in"}, where
![](media/image418.wmf){width="0.10416666666666667in" height="0.2in"} is
an even number, are mapped to resource elements
![](media/image419.wmf){width="0.2881944444444444in" height="0.2in"} and
![](media/image420.wmf){width="0.5041666666666667in" height="0.2in"} in
the same OFDM symbol with
![](media/image421.wmf){width="0.2881944444444444in" height="0.2in"},
then if *ce-punctured-subcarriers-DL* indicates that any of
![](media/image419.wmf){width="0.2881944444444444in" height="0.2in"} and
![](media/image420.wmf){width="0.5041666666666667in" height="0.2in"}
shall be counted but not used for transmission, the UE shall assume that
both ![](media/image419.wmf){width="0.2881944444444444in"
height="0.2in"} and ![](media/image420.wmf){width="0.5041666666666667in"
height="0.2in"} are counted but not used for transmission.

\- If PDSCH transmission in the LTE control region is configured by
higher layer parameter *transmissionInControlChRegion*, after the
initial mapping of the PDSCH to resource elements $(k,l)$ starting from
$l = l_{\text{DataStart}}$ in the first slot to the last OFDM symbol
available for downlink transmission in the subframe has been performed,
the mapping shall continue with resource elements $\left( k,l \right)$
not reserved for cell-specific reference signals in increasing order of
first the index $k$ over the assigned physical resource blocks and then
the index $l$ starting from $l = 0\ $in the first slot to
$l = l_{\text{DataStart}} - 1$ in the first slot, where
$l_{\text{DataStart}}$ is given by clause 7.1.6.4 of 3GPP TS
36.213 \[4\].

For BL/CE UEs, if the PDSCH is not carrying SIB1-BR the PRB resources
for PDSCH transmission in the first subframe are obtained from the DCI
as described in clauses 5.3.3.1.12, 5.3.3.1.13, and 5.5.1.3.14 in \[3\],
or provided by higher layers. Each of the $N_{\text{TB}} \geq 1$ PDSCH
codewords is transmitted with repetitions, where $N_{\text{TB}}$ is the
number of transport blocks defined in clause 7.1.11 of 3GPP TS 36.213
\[4\]. The PDSCH transmission spans
$N_{\text{abs}}^{\text{PDSCH}} \geq {N_{\text{TB}}N}_{\text{rep}}^{\text{PDSCH}}$
consecutive subframes, including subframes that are not BL/CE DL
subframes where the the PDSCH transmission is postponed.

\- If downlink resource reservation is enabled for the UE as specified
in \[9\], and the Resource reservation field in the DCI is set to 1,
then in case of PDSCH transmission associated with C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI
using UE-specific MPDCCH search space including PDSCH transmission
without a corresponding MPDCCH,

\- In a subframe that is fully reserved as defined in clause 7.1 in
\[4\], the PDSCH transmission is postponed until the next BL/CE downlink
subframe that is not fully reserved.

\- In a subframe that is partially reserved, the reserved resource
elements shall be counted in the PDSCH mapping but not used for
transmission of the PDSCH.

\- If frequency hopping is not enabled for PDSCH, all PDSCH repetitions
are located at the same PRB resources, and

\- if frequency hopping is enabled for PDSCH, the PDSCH shall be
transmitted in subframe within the consecutive downlink subframes using
the PRB resources of the narrowband with the same RIV as that of
narrowband $n_{\text{NB}}^{(i_{0})}$. The narrowband
$n_{\text{NB}}^{(i)}$ is defined as

where is the absolute subframe number of the first downlink subframe
intended for PDSCH and , and are cell-specific higher-layer parameters.
For PDSCH carrying SI other than SIB1-BR and for PDSCH associated with
P-RNTI, if *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB* is signalled in
SIB1-BR, then the frequency hopping granularity is set to
*interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB*; otherwise, is set to
*interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeA* signalled in SIB1-BR.

For BL/CE UE in CEModeA, frequency hopping of PDSCH associated with
C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI is enabled when higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig* is set and the frequency hopping flag in
DCI format 6-1A indicates frequency hopping, otherwise, frequency
hopping of is not enabled. For BL/CE UE in CEModeB, frequency hopping of
PDSCH associated with C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI is enabled when higher layer
parameter *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig* is set, otherwise, frequency
hopping of is not enabled.

The UE shall not expect PDSCH in subframe if it is not a BL/CE DL
subframe.

For BL/CE UEs, if the PDSCH carries SIB1-BR, the PDSCH transmission is
repeated periodically in every period of 8 radio frames, where a period
starts with a radio frame with *where is the system frame number*. The
PDSCH is transmitted times in each period of 8 frames, Let be the set of
narrowbands, excluding narrowbands overlapping with the 72 center
subcarriers for , and ordered in increasing order of narrowband index.
The PDSCH transmission cycles through the set of narrowbands in
increasing order of , starting with for the first subframe, according to

where is the number of narrowbands in the set .

The set of frames and subframes used for SIB1-BR transmission in each
period are given by Tables 6.4.1-1 and 6.4.1-2.

Table 6.4.1-1: The set of frames and subframes for SIB1-BR for .

          Frame structure type 1   Frame structure type 2       
  --- --- ------------------------ ------------------------ --- ---
                                                                
  4   0   0                        4                        1   5
      1   1                        4                        1   5

Table 6.4.1-2: The set of frames and subframes for SIB1-BR for .

           Frame structure type 1   Frame structure type 2          
  ---- --- ------------------------ ------------------------ ------ ------
                                                                    
  4    0   0                        4                        1      5
       1   1                        4                        1      0
  8    0   0, 1                     4                        0, 1   5
       1   0, 1                     9                        0, 1   0
  16   0   0, 1                     4, 9                     0, 1   0, 5
       1   0, 1                     0, 9                     0, 1   0, 5

BL/CE UEs may assume the same precoding matrix being used for a PRB
across a block of consecutive subframes when UE-specific reference
signals are transmitted together with the PDSCH, where the subframe
number of the first subframe in each block of consecutive subframes,
denoted as , satisfies .

For PDSCH transmission associated with SI-RNTI or P-RNTI to BL/CE UEs,
frequency hopping of the PDSCH is enabled when higher layer parameter
*si-HoppingConfigCommon* is set.

For PDSCH transmission associated with PUR-RNTI to BL/CE UEs using
UE-specific MPDCCH search space, frequency hopping of the PDSCH is
enabled when higher layer parameter *pur-PDSCH-FreqHopping* is set.

For PDSCH transmission associated with RA-RNTI or temporary C-RNTI to
BL/CE UEs, frequency hopping of the PDSCH is enabled when higher layer
parameter *rar-HoppingConfig* is set. Further

\- if PRACH CE level 0 or 1 is used for the last PRACH attempt, is set
to the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeA*;

\- if PRACH CE level 2 or 3 is used for the last PRACH attempt, is set
to the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB*.

For PDSCH transmission associated with SC-RNTI to BL/CE UEs, frequency
hopping of the PDSCH is enabled when higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MCCH* is set. Further

\- if *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MCCH* is set to CEModeA, is set to
the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeA*;

\- if *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MCCH* is set to CEModeB, is set to
the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB.*

For PDSCH transmission associated with G-RNTI to BL/CE UEs,

\- if the higher layer parameter *mpdcch-pdsch-CEmodeConfig-SC-MTCH* is
set to CEModeA,

\- if the higher layer parameter *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MTCH* is
set and the frequency hopping flag in DCI format 6-1A indicates
frequency hopping, then frequency hopping of the PDSCH is enabled and is
set to the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeA*,
otherwise frequency hopping is not enabled;

\- if the higher layer parameter *mpdcch-pdsch-CEmodeConfig-SC-MTCH* is
set to CEModeB,

\- if the higher layer parameter *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MTCH* is
set, then frequency hopping of the PDSCH is enabled and is set to the
higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB*, otherwise
frequency hopping is not enabled*.*

### 6.4.2 Slot/subslot-based physical downlink shared channel

For slot or subslot-based PDSCH, in this specification referred to as
slot-PDSCH and subslot-PDSCH respectively, the following additions and
exceptions hold in addition to those in clause 6.4:

\- PDSCH is not mapped to resource elements of SCCEs used by the
associated SPDCCH, or resource elements used for UE-specific reference
signals associated with SPDCCH

\- In case of slot-PDSCH:

\- the mapping to resource elements on antenna port not reserved for
other purposes shall be in increasing order of first the index over the
assigned physical resource blocks and then the index, for the slot of
the assigned physical resources in the subframe, and

\- in case of UE-specific reference signals, the PDSCH is not mapped to
any physical resource blocks carrying PBCH.

\- In case of subslot-PDSCH:

\- the mapping to resource elements on antenna port not reserved for
other purposes shall be in increasing order of first the index over the
assigned physical resource blocks and then the index, starting from
given in Table 6.4.2-1. The starting value and the value range of
depends on the number of symbols used for PDCCH and the subslot number
in the subframe, according to Table 6.4.2-1, and

\- in case of UE-specific reference signals,

\- the PDSCH is not mapped to any physical resource blocks in frequency
domain carrying PBCH or synchronization signals for the OFDM symbols of
the given subslot.

\- and in case the DCI associated with the subslot-PDSCH indicates the
absence of the UE-specific reference signals (see *DMRS position
indicator* field in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\]), the PDSCH is not mapped to
any physical resource blocks in frequency domain that carried PBCH or
synchronization signals for the OFDM symbols of the previous subslot.

Table 6.4.2-1: Starting value of index , i.e. , for subslot PDSCH

  Number of symbols used for PDCCH   Downlink subslot index                           
  ---------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- ----- ----- ----- -----
                                     \#0                      \#1   \#2   \#3   \#4   \#5
  1                                  1                        3     5     0     2     4
  2                                  \-                       2     5     0     2     4
  3                                  \-                       3     5     0     2     4

\- For PDSCH associated with UE-specific reference signals,

\- the PDSCH shall only be mapped to physical resource blocks in
frequency domain assigned for PDSCH transmission where the assignment
maps to both physical resource blocks of a PRG.

\- the subslot-PDSCH shall not be mapped to the physical resource blocks
of a PRG in case the resource elements of the associated SPDCCH are
mapped to those physical resource blocks.

\- In addition, the following additions and exceptions related to L1
signaling and/or higher layer configuration controlling rate-matching
around SPDCCH resources hold:

\- PDSCH is not mapped to resource elements belonging to a SPDCCH
resource set configured with higher layer parameter *rateMatchingMode*
indicating \'m2\' if either this SPDCCH resource set is not configured
with higher layer parameter *spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication* or it is
configured with higher layer parameter *spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication*
\'n1\' or \'n2\' indicating \'0\' for the SPDCCH resource set.

\- PDSCH is not mapped to resource elements belonging to a SPDCCH
resource set configured with higher layer parameter *rateMatchingMode*
indicating \'m3\' if the SPDCCH associated with PDSCH is found in this
SPDCCH resource set and if either this SPDCCH resource set is not
configured with higher layer parameter *spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication* or it
is configured with higher layer parameter *spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication*
\'n1\' or \'n2\' indicating \'0\' for the SPDCCH resource set. If the
SPDCCH associated with PDSCH is found on a candidate belonging to two
SPDCCH resource sets, the SPDCCH is assumed to be found in both SPDCCH
resource sets.

\- PDSCH is not mapped to resource elements belonging to a SPDCCH
resource set configured with higher layer parameter *rateMatchingMode*
indicating \'m4\' if the SPDCCH associated with PDSCH is not found in
this SPDCCH resource set and if either this SPDCCH resource set is not
configured with higher layer parameter *spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication* or it
is configured with higher layer parameter *spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication*
\'n1\' or \'n2\' indicating \'0\' for the SPDCCH resource set.

\- PDSCH is not mapped to resource elements belonging to a SPDCCH
resource set configured with higher layer parameter
*spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication* \'n0\' if the bit of the Used/Unused SPDCCH
resource indication field corresponding to this SPDCCH resource set in
the DCI format 7 associated with PDSCH is set to 1.

\- PDSCH is not mapped to resource elements belonging to SCCE\#0 to
SCCE\#of a SPDCCH resource set configured with higher layer parameter
*spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication* \'n1\' or \'n2\' indicating \'2\' for the
SPDCCH resource set if the most significant bit of the Used/Unused
SPDCCH resource indication field in the DCI format 7 associated with
PDSCH is set to 1.

\- PDSCH is not mapped to resource elements belonging to SCCE\# to
SCCE\# of a SPDCCH resource set configured with higher layer parameter
*spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication* \'n1\' or \'n2\' indicating \'2\' for the
SPDCCH resource set if the least significant bit of the Used/Unused
SPDCCH resource indication field in the DCI format 7 associated with
PDSCH is set to 1.

\- It should be noted that not mapping PDSCH to resource elements
belonging to a SPDCCH resource set holds irrespective of other
indications (*spdcch-L1-ReuseIndication* or *rateMatchingMode*)
associated with other SPDCCH resource sets (if configured).

\- For a UE with the higher-layer parameter
*blindSlotSubslotPDSCH-Repetitions* set to TRUE and PDSCH associated
with a downlink assignment sent on PDCCH/SPDCCH with DCI format 7
indicating $k$ transmissions, the rate-matching around SPDCCH resources
if applicable for PDSCH in the $k - 1$ valid slots/subslots following
the slot/subslot containing the downlink assignment follows

\- the rate-matching around SPDCCH resources of the PDSCH in the
slot/subslot containing the downlink assignment, if the DCI format 7
indicating $k$ transmissions is received on SPDCCH.

\- the rate-matching around SPDCCH resources of the PDSCH in the SPDCCH
resource set according to *rateMatchingMode* indicating \'m2\', if
configured by higher layers, **if the DCI format 7 indicating**
![cid:image001.png\@01D472A0.1687F650](media/image462.png){width="8.125e-2in"
height="0.1625in"}** transmissions is received on PDCCH**. For other
configurations of *rateMatchingMode*, no rate-matching around SPDCCH
resources for PDSCH in the $k - 1$ valid slots/subslots following the
PDCCH with DCI format 7 indicating $k$ PDSCH transmissions is applied..

6.5 Physical multicast channel
------------------------------

The physical multicast channel shall be processed and mapped to resource
elements as described in clause 6.3 with the following exceptions:

\- No transmit diversity scheme is specified.

\- Layer mapping and precoding shall be done assuming a single antenna
port and the transmission shall use antenna port 4.

\- The PMCH can only be transmitted in the MBSFN region. For PMCH with
Δ*f* = 15 kHz, the index in the first slot in the MBSFN subframe fulfils
where is equal to the value given by the higher layer parameter
*non-MBSFNregionLength* \[9\].

\- The PMCH shall use extended cyclic prefix.

\- The PMCH is not mapped to resource elements used for transmission of
MBSFN reference signals.

\- In clause 6.3.1, for Δ*f* = 1.25 kHz and Δ*f* ≈ 0.37 kHz, the
scrambling generator shall be initialised at the start of each slot.

\- For
$\Delta f = \frac{1}{\left( 82944T_{\text{s}} \right)} \approx 0.37\ \text{kHz}$
the following exception applies to clause 6.3.5:

\- The text \"which meet all of the following criteria in the current
subframe\" shall be replaced by \"which meet all of the following
criteria in the current slot\"

\- The mapping to resource elements $\left( k,l \right)$ on antenna port
$p$ not reserved for other purposes shall be in increasing order of
first the index $k$ over the assigned physical resource blocks and then
the index $l$.

6.6 Physical broadcast channel
------------------------------

The PBCH is not transmitted for frame structure type 3.

### 6.6.1 Scrambling

The block of bits, where , the number of bits transmitted on the
physical broadcast channel, equals 1920 for normal cyclic prefix and
1728 for extended cyclic prefix, shall be scrambled with a cell-specific
sequence prior to modulation, resulting in a block of scrambled bits
according to

where the scrambling sequence is given by clause 7.2. The scrambling
sequence shall be initialised with in each radio frame fulfilling . For
an MBMS-dedicated cell, the scrambling sequence shall be initialised
with in each radio frame fulfilling .

### 6.6.2 Modulation

The block of scrambled bits shall be modulated as described in
clause 7.1, resulting in a block of complex-valued modulation symbols.
Table 6.6.2-1 specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the
physical broadcast channel.

Table 6.6.2-1: PBCH modulation schemes.

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  PBCH               QPSK

### 6.6.3 Layer mapping and precoding

The block of modulation symbols shall be mapped to layers according to
one of clauses 6.3.3.1 or 6.3.3.3 with and precoded according to one of
clauses 6.3.4.1 or 6.3.4.3, resulting in a block of vectors , , where
represents the signal for antenna port and where and the number of
antenna ports for cell-specific reference signals .

### 6.6.4 Mapping to resource elements

The block of complex-valued symbols for each antenna port shall

\- for an MBMS-dedicated cell, be transmitted during 4 consecutive radio
frames fulfilling , starting in each radio frame fulfilling , and

\- otherwise, be transmitted during 4 consecutive radio frames, starting
in each radio frame fulfilling .

The block of complex-valued symbols shall be mapped in sequence starting
with to resource elements constituting the core set of PBCH resource
elements. The mapping to resource elements not reserved for transmission
of reference signals shall be in increasing order of first the index,
then the index in slot 1 in subframe 0 and finally the radio frame
number. The resource-element indices are given by

where resource elements reserved for reference signals shall be
excluded. The mapping operation shall assume cell-specific reference
signals for antenna ports 0-3 being present irrespective of the actual
configuration. The UE shall assume that the resource elements assumed to
be reserved for reference signals in the mapping operation above but not
used for transmission of reference signal are not available for PDSCH or
MPDCCH transmission. The UE shall not make any other assumptions about
these resource elements.

For an MBMS-dedicated cell configured with repetition, the physical
broadcast channel shall be repeated as described in clause 6.6.4.1.

If a cell is configured with repetition of the physical broadcast
channel

\- symbols mapped to core resource element in slot 1 in subframe 0
within a radio frame according to the mapping operation above, and

\- cell-specific reference signals in OFDM symbols in slot 1 in subframe
0 within a radio frame with according to the mapping operation above

shall additionally be mapped to resource elements in slot number within
radio frame unless resource element is used by CSI reference signals.

For frame structure type 1, , , and  are given by Table 6.6.4-1.

For frame structure type 2,

\- if , and are given by Table 6.6.4-2 and ;

\- if , and are given by Table 6.6.4-2 and , except that repetitions
with and are not applied.

For both frame structure type 1 and frame structure type 2, repetition
of the physical broadcast channel is not applicable if .

Resource elements already reserved or used for transmission of
cell-specific reference signals in absence of repetition shall not be
used for additional mapping of cell-specific reference signals.

Table 6.6.4-1: Frame offset, slot and symbol number triplets for
repetition of PBCH for frame structure type 1.

      Frame offset, slot and symbol number triplets   
  --- ----------------------------------------------- ------------------------------
      Normal cyclic prefix                            Extended cyclic prefix
  0   (1,18,3), (1,19,0), (1,19,4), (0,0,4)           (1,18,3), (1,19,0), (1,19,5)
  1   (1,18,4), (1,19,1). (1,19,5), (0,1,4)           (1,18,4), (1,19,1). (0,0,3)
  2   (1,18,5), (1,19,2), (1,19,6), (0,1,5)           (1,18,5), (1,19,2), (0,1,4)
  3   (1,18,6), (1,19,3), (0,0,3), (0,1,6)            (1,19,3), (1,19,4), (0,1,5)

Table 6.6.4-2: Slot and symbol number pairs for repetition of PBCH for
frame structure type 2.

      Slot and symbol number pairs           
  --- -------------------------------------- ------------------------
      Normal cyclic prefix                   Extended cyclic prefix
  0   (0,3), (1,4), (10,3), (11,0), (11,4)   (0,3), (10,3), (11,0)
  1   (0,4), (1,5), (10,4), (11,1), (11,5)   (0,4), (10,4), (11,1)
  2   (0,5), (10,5), (11.2)                  (0,5), (10,5), (11.2)
  3   (0,6), (10,6), (11.3)                  (1,4), (11,3), (11.4)

#### 6.6.4.1 PBCH repetition in the cell acquisition subframe

For a MBMS-dedicated cell with $N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}} > 6$,

\- symbols mapped to core resource element $\left( k,l \right)$ in slot
1 in subframe 0 within a radio frame $n_{\text{f}}$ according to the
mapping operation in clause 6.6.4, and

\- cell-specific reference signals in OFDM symbols $l$ in slot 1 in
subframe 0 within a radio frame $n_{\text{f}}$ with $\text{\ l}$
according to the mapping operation in clause 6.6.4

shall additionally be multiplied by $\theta_{k,l^{'}}$ and mapped to
resource elements $\left( k,l' \right)$ in slot number
$n_{\text{s}}^{'}$ within radio frame $n_{\text{f}}$ where $l'$ and
$n_{\text{s}}^{'}$ are given by Table 6.6.4.1-1 in frames fulfilling

\- $n_{\text{f}}\ mod\ 4\  = \ 0$ for
$25 \leq N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}}$;

\- $n_{\text{f}}\ mod\ 8\  = \ 4$ for
$6 < N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}} < 25$

Resource elements already reserved or used for transmission of
cell-specific reference signals in absence of repetition shall not be
used for additional mapping of cell-specific reference signals.

The quantity $\theta_{k,l^{'}}$ is given by

$$\theta_{k,l^{'}} = e^{j\frac{\pi c\left( 2k^{'} \right)}{2}}e^{\text{jπ}c\left( 2k^{'} + 1 \right)}$$

where the relationship between $k'$ and $k$ is defined in clause 6.6.4,
and the pseudo-random sequence $c\left( i \right)$ is given by clause
7.2 and initialized for each OFDM symbol $l'$ with

$$c_{\text{init}} = 2^{13}\left( \left( N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{cell}} + 1 \right)\left( N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}}n_{\text{s}}^{'} + l' + 1 \right) \right) + 2^{4}N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{cell}} + \left( N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}}n_{\text{s}}^{'} + l' \right)$$

Table 6.6.4.1-1: Slot and symbol number pair for repetition of PBCH.

  $$\mathbf{l}$$   Slot and symbol number pair $\left( \mathbf{n}_{\text{s}}^{\mathbf{'}}\mathbf{,}\mathbf{l}^{\mathbf{'}} \right)$   
  ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------
                   Normal cyclic prefix                                                                                               Extended cyclic prefix
  0                (0, 4)                                                                                                             \-
  1                (1, 4)                                                                                                             (0, 3)
  2                (1, 5)                                                                                                             (1, 4)
  3                (0, 3), (1, 6)                                                                                                     (1, 5)

6.7 Physical control format indicator channel
---------------------------------------------

The physical control format indicator channel carries information about
the number of OFDM symbols used for transmission of PDCCHs in a
subframe. The set of OFDM symbols possible to use for PDCCH in a
subframe is given by Table 6.7-1.

Table 6.7-1: Number of OFDM symbols used for PDCCH

  Subframe                                                                                                                                                                Number of OFDM symbols for PDCCH when   Number of OFDM symbols for PDCCH when
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------
  Subframe 1 and 6 for frame structure type 2 or a subframe for frame structure type 3 with the same duration as the DwPTS duration of a special subframe configuration   1, 2                                    2
  MBSFN subframes with and configured with 1 or 2 cell-specific antenna ports                                                                                             1, 2                                    2
  MBSFN subframes with and configured with 4 cell-specific antenna ports                                                                                                  2                                       2
  MBSFN subframes with $\mathrm{\Delta}f \in \left\{ 7.5,\ 2.5,\ 1.25 \right\}$ kHz or MBSFN slots with $\mathrm{\Delta}f \approx 0.37\ $kHz                              0                                       0
  Non-MBSFN subframes (except subframe 6 for frame structure type 2) configured with positioning reference signals                                                        1, 2, 3                                 2, 3
  All other cases                                                                                                                                                         1, 2, 3                                 2, 3, 4

The UE may assume the PCFICH is transmitted when the number of OFDM
symbols for PDCCH is greater than zero unless stated otherwise in \[4,
clause 12\].

### 6.7.1 Scrambling

The block of bits transmitted in one subframe shall be scrambled with a
cell-specific sequence prior to modulation, resulting in a block of
scrambled bitsaccording to

where the scrambling sequence is given by clause 7.2. The scrambling
sequence generator shall be initialised with at the start of each
subframe.

### 6.7.2 Modulation

The block of scrambled bits shall be modulated as described in
clause 7.1, resulting in a block of complex-valued modulation symbols.
Table 6.7.2-1 specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the
physical control format indicator channel.

Table 6.7.2-1: PCFICH modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  PCFICH             QPSK

### 6.7.3 Layer mapping and precoding

The block of modulation symbols shall be mapped to layers according to
one of clauses 6.3.3.1 or 6.3.3.3 with and precoded according to one of
clauses 6.3.4.1 or 6.3.4.3, resulting in a block of vectors , , where
represents the signal for antenna port and where and the number of
antenna ports for cell-specific reference signals . The PCFICH shall be
transmitted on the same set of antenna ports as the PBCH.

### 6.7.4 Mapping to resource elements

The mapping to resource elements is defined in terms of quadruplets of
complex-valued symbols. Let denote symbol quadruplet for antenna port.
For each of the antenna ports, symbol quadruplets shall be mapped in
increasing order of to the four resource-element groups in the first
OFDM symbol in a downlink subframe or DwPTS with the representative
resource-element as defined in clause 6.2.4 given by

where the additions are modulo ,

and is the physical-layer cell identity as given by clause 6.11.

6.8 Physical downlink control channel
-------------------------------------

### 6.8.1 PDCCH formats

The physical downlink control channel carries scheduling assignments and
other control information. A physical control channel is transmitted on
an aggregation of one or several consecutive control channel elements
(CCEs), where a control channel element corresponds to 9 resource
element groups. The number of resource-element groups not assigned to
PCFICH or PHICH is . The CCEs available in the system are numbered from
0 to, where . The PDCCH supports multiple formats as listed in Table
6.8.1-1 where PDCCH format 4 is supported only for non-MBSFN subframes
in an MBMS-dedicated cell. A PDCCH consisting of consecutive CCEs may
only start on a CCE fulfilling, where is the CCE number.

Multiple PDCCHs can be transmitted in a subframe.

Table 6.8.1-1: Supported PDCCH formats

  PDCCH format   Number of CCEs   Number of resource-element groups   Number of PDCCH bits
  -------------- ---------------- ----------------------------------- ----------------------
  0              1                9                                   72
  1              2                18                                  144
  2              4                36                                  288
  3              8                72                                  576
  4              16               144                                 1152

### 6.8.2 PDCCH multiplexing and scrambling

The block of bits on each of the control channels to be transmitted in a
subframe, where is the number of bits in one subframe to be transmitted
on physical downlink control channel number , shall be multiplexed,
resulting in a block of bits , where is the number of PDCCHs transmitted
in the subframe.

The block of bits shall be scrambled with a cell-specific sequence prior
to modulation, resulting in a block of scrambled bits according to

where the scrambling sequence is given by clause 7.2. The scrambling
sequence generator shall be initialised with at the start of each
subframe.

CCE number corresponds to bits . If necessary, \<NIL\> elements shall be
inserted in the block of bits prior to scrambling to ensure that the
PDCCHs starts at the CCE positions as described in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\]
and to ensure that the length of the scrambled block of bits matches the
amount of resource-element groups not assigned to PCFICH or PHICH.

### 6.8.3 Modulation

The block of scrambled bits shall be modulated as described in
clause 7.1, resulting in a block of complex-valued modulation symbols.
Table 6.8.3-1 specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the
physical downlink control channel.

Table 6.8.3-1: PDCCH modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  PDCCH              QPSK

### 6.8.4 Layer mapping and precoding

The block of modulation symbols shall be mapped to layers according to
one of clauses 6.3.3.1 or 6.3.3.3 with and precoded according to one of
clauses 6.3.4.1 or 6.3.4.3, resulting in a block of vectors , to be
mapped onto resources on the antenna ports used for transmission, where
represents the signal for antenna port . The PDCCH shall be transmitted
on the same set of antenna ports as the PBCH.

### 6.8.5 Mapping to resource elements

The mapping to resource elements is defined by operations on quadruplets
of complex-valued symbols. Let denote symbol quadruplet for antenna
port.

The block of quadruplets , where , shall be permuted resulting in . The
permutation shall be according to the sub-block interleaver in clause
5.1.4.2.1 of 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\] with the following exceptions:

\- the input and output to the interleaver is defined by symbol
quadruplets instead of bits

\- interleaving is performed on symbol quadruplets instead of bits by
substituting the terms \"bit\", \"bits\" and \"bit sequence\" in clause
5.1.4.2.1 of 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\] by \"symbol quadruplet\", \"symbol
quadruplets\" and \"symbol-quadruplet sequence\", respectively

\<NULL\> elements at the output of the interleaver in 3GPP TS 36.212
\[3\] shall be removed when forming . Note that the removal of \<NULL\>
elements does not affect any \<NIL\> elements inserted in clause 6.8.2.

The block of quadruplets shall be cyclically shifted, resulting in
where.

Mapping of the block of quadruplets is defined in terms of
resource-element groups, specified in clause 6.2.4, according to steps
1--10 below:

1\) Initialize (resource-element group number)

2\) Initialize

3\) Initialize

4\) If the resource element represents a resource-element group and the
resource-element group is not assigned to PCFICH or PHICH then perform
step 5 and 6, else go to step 7

5\) Map symbol-quadruplet to the resource-element group represented by
for each antenna port

6\) Increase by 1

7\) Increase by 1

8\) Repeat from step 4 if , where corresponds to the number of OFDM
symbols used for PDCCH transmission. The quantity $L$ is obtained from

\- the sequence transmitted on the PCFICH, or

\- the higher-layer parameter *cfi-SubframeMBSFN-r15* for DCI formats
other than DCI format 7 in a MBSFN subframe, or

\- the higher-layer parameter *cfi-SlotSubslotMBSFN-r15* for DCI format
7 in a MBSFN subframe, or

\- the higher-layer parameter *cfi-SubframeNonMBSFN-r15* for DCI formats
other than DCI format 7 in a non-MBSFN subframe, or

\- the higher-layer parameter *cfi-SlotSubslotNonMBSFN-r15* for DCI
format 7 in a non-MBSFN subframe, or

\- the higher-layer parameter *cfi-PatternSubframe-r15* for DCI formats
other than DCI format 7 in one subframe for frame structure 2, or

\- the higher-layer parameter *cfi-PatternSlotSubslot-r15* for DCI
formats 7 in one subframe for frame structure 2.

9\) Increase by 1

10\) Repeat from step 3 if

PDCCHs shall not be transmitted in MBSFN subframes with zero-size
non-MBSFN region.

6.8A Enhanced physical downlink control channel
-----------------------------------------------

For frame structure type 3, for a subframe with the same duration as the
DwPTS duration of a special subframe configuration, the enhanced
physical downlink control channel is defined the same as that for the
corresponding special subframe configuration.

### 6.8A.1 EPDCCH formats

The enhanced physical downlink control channel (EPDCCH) carries
scheduling assignments. An enhanced physical downlink control channel is
transmitted using an aggregation of one or several consecutive enhanced
control channel elements (ECCEs) where each ECCE consists of multiple
enhanced resource element groups (EREGs), defined in clause 6.2.4A. The
number of ECCEs used for one EPDCCH depends on the EPDCCH format as
given by Table 6.8A.1-2 and the number of EREGs per ECCE is given by
Table 6.8A.1-1. Both localized and distributed transmission is
supported.

An EPDCCH can use either localized or distributed transmission,
differing in the mapping of ECCEs to EREGs and PRB pairs.

A UE shall monitor multiple EPDCCHs as defined in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].
One or two sets of physical resource-block pairs which a UE shall
monitor for EPDCCH transmissions can be configured. All EPDCCH
candidates in EPDCCH set use either only localized or only distributed
transmission as configured by higher layers. Within EPDCCH set in
subframe , the ECCEs available for transmission of EPDCCHs are numbered
from 0 to and ECCE number corresponds to

\- EREGs numbered in PRB index for localized mapping, and

\- EREGs numbered in PRB indices for distributed mapping,

where , is the number of EREGs per ECCE, and is the number of ECCEs per
resource-block pair. The physical resource-block pairs constituting
EPDCCH set are in this paragraph assumed to be numbered in ascending
order from 0 to .

Table 6.8A.1-1: Number of EREGs per ECCE,

  Normal cyclic prefix   Extended cyclic prefix                                                                                          
  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ----------------- -----------------------------------------------
  Normal subframe        Special subframe, configuration 3, 4, 8   Special subframe, configuration 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, 10   Normal subframe   Special subframe, configuration 1, 2, 3, 5, 6
  4                      8                                                                                                               

Table 6.8A.1-2: Supported EPDCCH formats

  EPDCCH format   Number of ECCEs for one EPDCCH,                                                       
  --------------- --------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------------ --------------------------
                  Case A                            Case B                                              
                  Localized transmission            Distributed transmission   Localized transmission   Distributed transmission
  0               2                                 2                          1                        1
  1               4                                 4                          2                        2
  2               8                                 8                          4                        4
  3               16                                16                         8                        8
  4               \-                                32                         \-                       16

Case A in Table 6.8A.1-2 is used when the conditions corresponding to
case 1 in clause 9.1.4 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\] are satisfied, otherwise
case B is used. The quantity for a particular UE and referenced in
3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\] is defined as the number of downlink resource
elements available for EPDCCH transmission in a physical resource-block
pair configured for possible EPDCCH transmission of EPDCCH set and
fulfilling all of the following criteria:

\- they are part of any one of the 16 EREGs in the physical
resource-block pair, and

\- they are assumed by the UE not to be used for cell-specific reference
signals, where the positions of the cell-specific reference signals are
given by clause 6.10.1.2 with the number of antenna ports for and the
frequency shift of cell-specific reference signals derived as described
in clause 6.10.1.2 unless other values for these parameters are provided
by clause 9.1.4.3 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and-

\- they are assumed by the UE not to be used for transmission of CSI
reference signals, where the positions of the CSI reference signals are
given by clause 6.10.5.2 with the configuration for zero power CSI
reference signals obtained as described in clause 6.10.5.2 unless other
values are provided by clause 9.1.4.3 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and with
the configuration for non-zero power CSI reference signals obtained as
described in clause 6.10.5.2, and

\- for frame structure type 1 and 2, the index in the first slot in a
subframe fulfils where is given by clause 9.1.4.1 of
3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and

\- for frame structure type 3,

\- if the higher layer parameter *subframeStartPosition* indicates
\'s07\' and if the downlink transmission starts in the second slot of a
subframe

\- the index in the second slot in the subframe fulfils where is given
by clause 9.1.4.1 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\],

\- otherwise

\- the index in the first slot in the subframe fulfils where is given by
clause 9.1.4.1 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].

### 6.8A.2 Scrambling

The block of bits to be transmitted on an EPDCCH in a subframe shall be
scrambled, resulting in a block of scrambled bits according to

where the UE-specific scrambling sequence is given by clause 7.2. The
scrambling sequence generator shall be initialized with where is the
EPDCCH set number.

### 6.8A.3 Modulation

The block of scrambled bits shall be modulated as described in
clause 7.1, resulting in a block of complex-valued modulation symbols .
Table 6.8A.3-1 specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the
enhanced physical downlink control channel.

Table 6.8A.3-1: EPDCCH modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  EPDCCH             QPSK

### 6.8A.4 Layer mapping and precoding

The block of complex-valued modulation symbols shall be mapped to a
single layer and precoded according to 6.3.4.1 as for , .

### 6.8A.5 Mapping to resource elements

The block of complex-valued symbols shall be mapped in sequence starting
with to resource elements on the associated antenna port which meet all
of the following criteria:

\- they are part of the EREGs assigned for the EPDCCH transmission, and

\- they are assumed by the UE not to be used for cell-specific reference
signals, where the positions of the cell-specific reference signals are
given by clause 6.10.1.2 with the number of antenna ports for and the
frequency shift of cell-specific reference signals derived as described
in clause 6.10.1.2 unless other values for these parameters are provided
by clause 9.1.4.3 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and

\- they are assumed by the UE not to be used for transmission of:

\- zero-power CSI reference signals, where the positions of the CSI
reference signals are given by clause 6.10.5.2. The configuration for
zero power CSI reference signals is

\- obtained as described in clause 6.10.5.2 unless other values are
provided by clause 9.1.4.3 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and

\- obtained by higher-layer configuration of up to five reserved CSI-RS
resources as part of the discovery signal configuration following the
procedure for zero-power CSI-RS in clause 6.10.5.2.

\- non-zero-power CSI reference signals for CSI reporting, except for
non-zero power CSI reference signals configured by
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList*, with the configuration for non-zero power CSI
reference signals for CSI reporting obtained as described in clause
6.10.5.2, and

\- for frame structure type 1 and 2, the index in the first slot in a
subframe fulfils where is given by clause 9.1.4.1 of
3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and

\- for frame structure type 3,

\- if the higher layer parameter *subframeStartPosition* indicates
\'s07\' and if the downlink transmission starts in the second slot of a
subframe

\- the index in the second slot in the subframe fulfils where is given
by clause 9.1.4.1 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\],

\- otherwise

\- the index in the first slot in the subframe fulfils where is given by
clause 9.1.4.1 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].

The mapping to resource elements on antenna port meeting the criteria
above shall be in increasing order of first the index and then the
index, starting with the first slot and ending with the second slot in a
subframe.

For localized transmission, the single antenna port to use is given by
Table 6.8A.5-1 with

where is the lowest ECCE index used by this EPDCCH transmission in the
EPDCCH set, equals the C-RNTI, and is the number of ECCEs used for this
EPDCCH.

Table 6.8A.5-1: Antenna port to use for localized EPDCCH transmission

+---+------------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+
|   | Normal cyclic prefix   | Extended cyclic prefix           |              |
+===+========================+==================================+==============+
|   | Normal subframes,      | Special subframes,\              | Any subframe |
|   |                        | configurations 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, 10 |              |
|   | Special subframes,\    |                                  |              |
|   | configurations 3, 4, 8 |                                  |              |
+---+------------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+
| 0 | 107                    | 107                              | 107          |
+---+------------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+
| 1 | 108                    | 109                              | 108          |
+---+------------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+
| 2 | 109                    | \-                               | \-           |
+---+------------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+
| 3 | 110                    | \-                               | \-           |
+---+------------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+

For distributed transmission, each resource element in an EREG is
associated with one out of two antenna ports in an alternating manner,
starting with antenna port 107, where for normal cyclic prefix and for
extended cyclic prefix.

6.8B MTC physical downlink control channel
------------------------------------------

### 6.8B.1 MPDCCH formats

The MPDCCH formats are defined as in Clause 6.8A.1 with the following
exceptions:

\- The term EPDCCH is replaced by MPDCCH.

\- The MTC physical downlink control channel carries downlink control
information and is transmitted across consecutive BL/CE DL subframes.
Within each of the BL/CE DL subframes an MPDCCH is transmitted using an
aggregation of one or several consecutive enhanced control channel
elements (ECCEs) where each ECCE consists of multiple enhanced resource
element groups (EREGs), defined in clause 6.2.4A.

\- For frame structure type 2,

\- If repetition is not configured for the MPDCCH, the number of EREGs
per ECCE is given by Table 6.8A.1-1. If repetition is configured for the
MPDCCH, the number of EREGs per ECCE is given by Table 6.8B.1-1.

\- For those special subframes where the MPDCCH is not supported, these
special subframes are considered BL/CE DL subframes for both MPDCCH and
PDSCH transmission, only if they are indicated as BL/CE DL subframe by
higher layer signalling.

\- For an MPDCCH associated with 2 or 4 PRBs, if repetition is not
configured for the MPDCCH, the supported MPDCCH formats are given by
Table 6.8A.1-2. Otherwise, the supported MPDCCH formats are given by
Table 6.8B.1-2. However, for MPDCCH format 5, the equation defining the
relation between ECCE index and EREG index does not apply and the number
of ECCEs refers to the MPDCCH mapping to the REs of the 2+4 PRB set as
defined in Clause 6.8B.5.

Table 6.8B.1-1: Number of EREGs per ECCE, , for frame structure type 2.

  Normal cyclic prefix   Extended cyclic prefix                                      
  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------- ----------------- -----------------------------------------------
  Normal subframe        Special subframe, configuration 3, 4, 8   Normal subframe   Special subframe, configuration 1, 2, 3, 5, 6
  4                      8                                                           

Table 6.8B.1-2: Supported MPDCCH formats

  MPDCCH format   Number of ECCEs in a subframe for one MPDCCH,                                                       
  --------------- ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------------ --------------------------
                  =4                                              =8                                                  
                  Localized transmission                          Distributed transmission   Localized transmission   Distributed transmission
  0               2                                               2                          1                        1
  1               4                                               4                          2                        2
  2               8                                               8                          4                        4
  3               16                                              16                         8                        8
  4               \-                                              \-                         \-                       \-
  5               24                                              24                         12                       12

### 6.8B.2 Scrambling

Scrambling shall be perfomed according to Clause 6.8A.2 with EPDCCH
replaced by MPDCCH except that the same scrambling sequence is applied
per subframe to MPDCCH for a given block of subframes and is the MPDCCH
set number. For an MPDCCH associated with a 2+4 PRB set as defined in
\[4\], is used to generate the scrambling sequence for mapping to REs in
6 PRBs as well as 2 PRBs and 4 PRBs.

The subframe number of the first subframe in each block of consecutive
subframes, denoted as , satisfies . For the block of subframes, the
scrambling sequence generator shall be initialised with

where

and is the absolute subframe number of the first downlink subframe
intended for the MPDCCH. The MPDCCH transmission spans consecutive
subframes, including subframes that are not BL/CE DL subframes where the
MPDCCH transmission is postponed.

For BL/CE UEs,

\- if the MPDCCH transmission is associated with P-RNTI or SC-RNTI:

\- for frame structure type 1 and for frame structure type 2

\- otherwise

\- for UEs assuming CEModeA (according to the definition in Clause 12 of
\[4\]) or configured with CEModeA:

\- for frame structure type 1 and for frame structure type 2 for UEs
assuming CEModeB (according to the definition in Clause 12 of \[4\]) or
configured with CEModeB.

### 6.8B.3 Modulation

Modulation shall be performed according to 6.8A.3 with EPDCCH replaced
by MPDCCH.

### 6.8B.4 Layer mapping and precoding

Layer mapping and precoding shall be done according to Clause 6.8A.4
with EPDCCH replaced by MPDCCH.

### 6.8B.5 Mapping to resource elements

Mapping to resource elements shall be done according to Clause 6.8A.5
with the following exceptions:

\- The term EPDCCH shall be replaced by MPDCCH.

\- The mapping shall be repeated across each of the BL/CE DL subframes.

\- is the number of ECCEs used for this MPDCCH in the first of the
subframes.

\- For an MPDCCH associated with a 2+4 PRB set as defined in \[4\], the
mapping to resource elements on antenna port shall be in increasing
order of first the index and then the index over the 6 PRBs for MPDCCH
format 5 and over the 2 or 4 PRBs for the other MPDCCH formats.

\- For localized transmission and MPDCCH format 5, the single antenna
port to use is given by Table 6.8A.5-1 with

> where equals the C-RNTI.

\- Resource elements occupied by CSI reference signals shall be counted
in the MPDCCH mapping but not used for transmission of the MPDCCH.

\- PRB pairs occupied by RSS shall be counted in the MPDCCH mapping but
not used for transmission of the MPDCCH.

\- Resource elements belonging to PRBs in which PRS is transmitted
(including PRS muted subframes) shall be counted in the MPDCCH mapping
but not used for transmission of the MPDCCH.

\- A BL/CE UE not configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* and not configured with higher layer
parameter *ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig* may assume there is no
MPDCCH transmission which uses overlapping sets of subframes as PDSCH
transmissions to that UE, where the MPDCCH is located at a different
narrowband than the PDSCH.

\- A BL/CE UE configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* may assume that there is no MPDCCH
transmission which uses overlapping sets of subframes as PDSCH
transmissions to that UE, where the MPDCCH transmission and PDSCH
transmission in any of the overlapping subframes span a PRB region
larger than *X* contiguous PRBs where *X*=25 if
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* is set to 5 MHz and *X*=100 if
*ce-pdsch-maxBandwidth-config* is set to 20 MHz.

\- A BL/CE UE configured with higher layer parameter
*ce-PDSCH-FlexibleStartPRB-AllocConfig* may assume there is no MPDCCH
transmission in MPDCCH candidates not fully contained within the tuning
narrowband defined for PDSCH in Clause 6.2.8.

\- For BL/CE UEs in CEModeB, in MBSFN subframe(s), resource elements
that correspond to the positions of cell-specific reference signals as
in subframe \#0 shall not be counted in the MPDCCH mapping and not used
for transmission of the MPDCCH.

\- Resource elements belonging to synchronization signals, the core part
of PBCH, PBCH repetitions, or resource elements reserved for reference
signals in the mapping operation of PBCH but not used for transmission
of reference signals, shall be counted in the MPDCCH mapping but not
used for transmission of the MPDCCH.

\- If MPDCCH transmission in the LTE control region is configured by the
higher layer parameter *transmissionInControlChRegion*,

\- For frame structure type 1 and frame structure type 2 except special
subframe configuration 9 or 10,

\- Symbols used for transmission of MPDCCH or demodulation signals
associated with MPDCCH and mapped to resource element
$\left( k,l \right)$ in the second slot, where
$l \in \{ 0..l_{\text{MPDCCHStart}} - 1\}$, shall additionally be mapped
to resource element $(k,l)$ in the first slot.

\- For frame structure type 2 and special subframe configuration 9 or
10,

\- Symbols used for transmission of MPDCCH or demodulation signals
associated with MPDCCH and mapped to resource element $(k,l + 4)$ in the
first slot, where $l \in \{ 0..l_{\text{MPDCCHStart}} - 1\}$, shall
additionally be mapped to resource element $(k,l)$ in the first slot, if
resource element $(k,l)$ in the first slot is not used for cell-specific
reference signals.

\- In the subframes where an MPDCCH or its associated PDSCH is
transmitted in response to a physical random access transmission
initiated by a PDCCH order, the UE shall receive the MPDCCH or its
associated PDSCH, and assume no other UE-specific reception is needed.

\- For MPDCCH transmission associated with C-RNTI or TPC-PUCCH-RNTI or
TPC-PUSCH-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI that are not configured to use the
Type2-MPDCCH common search space, frequency hopping of the MPDCCH is
enabled when higher layer parameter *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig* is set.

\- For MPDCCH transmission associated with PUR-RNTI using UE-specific
MPDCCH search space, frequency hopping of the MPDCCH is enabled when
*mpdcch-FreqHopping in* higher layer parameter *PUR-MPDCCH-Config* is
set.

\- For MPDCCH transmission associated with Type2-MPDCCH common search
space, frequency hopping of the MPDCCH is enabled when higher layer
parameter *rar-HoppingConfig* is set. Further

\- if PRACH CE level 0 or 1 is used for the last PRACH attempt, is set
to the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeA*;

\- if PRACH CE level 2 or 3 is used for the last PRACH attempt, is set
to the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB*.

\- For MPDCCH transmission associated with SC-RNTI, frequency hopping of
the MPDCCH is enabled when higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MCCH* is set. Further

\- if *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MCCH* is set to CEModeA, is set to
the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeA*;

\- if *mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MCCH* is set to CEModeB, is set to
the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB.*

\- For MPDCCH transmission associated with G-RNTI, frequency hopping of
the MPDCCH is enabled when higher layer parameter
*mpdcch-pdsch-HoppingConfig-SC-MTCH* is set. Further

\- if *mpdcch-pdsch-CEmodeConfig-SC-MTCH* is set to CEModeA, is set to
the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeA*;

\- if *mpdcch-pdsch-CEmodeConfig-SC-MTCH* is set to CEModeB, is set to
the higher layer parameter *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB.*

\- The narrowband for MPDCCH transmission in the first subframe of
MPDCCH search space is provided by higher layers. Starting subframe
configuration of a search space where UE monitors an MPDCCH is also
provided by higher layers. The MPDCCH search space uses subframes,
spanning consecutive subframes, including subframes that are not BL/CE
DL subframes where the MPDCCH transmission is postponed.

\- If downlink resource reservation is enabled for the UE as specified
in \[9\], then in case of MPDCCH transmission associated with C-RNTI or
SPS C-RNTI using UE-specific MPDCCH search space,

\- In a subframe that is fully reserved as defined in clause 7.1 in
\[4\], the MPDCCH transmission is postponed until the next BL/CE
downlink subframe that is not fully reserved.

\- In a subframe that is partially reserved, the reserved resource
elements shall be counted in the MPDCCH mapping but not used for
transmission of the MPDCCH.

\- If frequency hopping is not enabled for MPDCCH, the repetitions of an
MPDCCH candidate are located at the same PRB resources in the same
narrowband , and

\- if frequency hopping is enabled for MPDCCH, an MPDCCH candidate shall
be transmitted in absolute subframe using the same PRB resources within
each narrowband

where is the absolute subframe number of the first downlink subframe of
MPDCCH search space, and , and are cell-specific higher-layer
parameters. The UE shall not expect MPDCCH transmission in absolute
subframe if it is not a BL/CE DL subframe.

\- The UE may assume the same precoding matrix being used for a PRB
across a block of consecutive subframes for MPDCCH, where the subframe
number of the first subframe in each block of consecutive subframes,
denoted as , satisfies .

\- If *crs-ChEstMPDCCH-ConfigCommon* or
*crs-ChEstMPDCCH-ConfigDedicated* is configured by higher layers, the
relation between the MPDCCH and CRS antenna ports is defined as follows:

\- When one CRS port is configured by the eNB, the antenna port(s) used
for MPDCCH transmission are equivalent to CRS port 0.

\- For distributed transmission and when two CRS ports are configured by
the eNB, the relation between the symbols transmitted on the antenna
ports used for MPDCCH transmission and CRS ports 0 -- 1 is defined by
the precoder matrix for single-layer transmission in Table 6.3.4.2.3-1
using codebook index $0$ for antenna port 107 and codebook index $1$ for
antenna port 109.

$$i = 12 + 2\left( \left( \left\lfloor \frac{n_{\text{abs}} + i_{\Delta}}{n_{\text{NB}}^{ch,DL}} \right\rfloor + n_{\text{PRB}} \right)\ mod\ 2 \right)$$

$$i = \left( \left\lfloor \frac{n_{\text{abs}} + i_{\Delta}}{n_{\text{NB}}^{ch,DL}} \right\rfloor + n_{\text{PRB}} \right)\ mod\ 2$$

$$i = 12 + \left( \left( \left\lfloor \frac{n_{\text{abs}} + i_{\Delta}}{n_{\text{NB}}^{ch,DL}} \right\rfloor + \Delta_{\text{PRB}}\left( n_{\text{PRB}}\ mod\ 4 \right) \right)\ \text{mod\ }4 \right)$$

$$\left\lbrack \text{\ Δ}_{\text{PRB}}\left( 0 \right)\text{\ \ \ }\Delta_{\text{PRB}}\left( 1 \right)\ \text{\ \ Δ}_{\text{PRB}}\left( 2 \right)\text{\ \ \ }\Delta_{\text{PRB}}\left( 3 \right)\  \right\rbrack = \lbrack 0\ 2\ 1\ 3\rbrack$$

\- For localized transmission and when CSI-based or reciprocity-based
mapping type is used, the relation between the symbols transmitted on
the antenna port used for MPDCCH transmission and the CRS ports is given
in \[4\]. When it is indicated in \[4\] that the antenna port is changed
for an MPDCCH candidate with aggregation level 2, the antenna port shall
be replaced by the antenna port determined for an MPDCCH candidate with
aggregation level 4 in the same search space.

\- NOTE: $n_{\text{PRB}} = 0,\ldots,K - 1$, with $K = 6\ $for
$N_{\text{RB}}^{'X_{p}} = 2 + 4,$ and
$K = N_{\text{RB}}^{'X_{p}}\ $otherwise, where the ordering of PRBs
within the PRB set(s) is in increasing order of PRB index.

The UE may assume that an MPDCCH associated with the P-RNTI is
transmitted on the set of narrowbands where is defined in Clause 6.4.1.
For a UE monitoring an MPDCCH associated with the P-RNTI, the first
MPDCCH narrowband is given by where , is the Paging Narrowband (PN)
obtained according to \[10\], and is the higher-layer parameter
*paging-narrowBands*.

\- If the higher-layer parameter *si-HoppingConfigCommon* disables
frequency hopping for an MPDCCH associated with P-RNTI, each MPDCCH
candidate shall be located in the same PRB in narrowband where .

\- If the higher-layer parameter *si-HoppingConfigCommon* enables
frequency hopping for an MPDCCH with P-RNTI, an MPDCCH candidate shall
be located in narrowband in absolute subframe using the same PRB
resources within each narrowband where

where is the absolute subframe number of the first downlink subframe of
MPDCCH search space according to locations of paging opportunity
subframes, and , and are cell-specific higher-layer parameters. For
MPDCCH associated with P-RNTI, if *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB*
is signalled in SIB1-BR, then the frequency hopping granularity is set
to *interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeB*; otherwise, is set to
*interval-DlHoppingConfigCommonModeA* signalled in SIB1-BR.

The UE shall not expect MPDCCH transmission in absolute subframe if it
is not a BL/CE DL subframe.

6.8C Short physical downlink control channel (SPDCCH)
-----------------------------------------------------

### 6.8C.1 SPDCCH formats

The short physical downlink control channel (SPDCCH) carries scheduling
assignments and other control information for subslot PDSCH, slot-PDSCH,
subslot-PUSCH, and slot-PUSCH. A SPDCCH is transmitted using an
aggregation of one or several consecutive short control channel elements
(SCCEs) where each SCCE consists of multiple short resource element
groups (SREGs), defined in clause 6.2.4B. The number of resource
elements used for one SPDCCH depends on the SPDCCH format as given by
Table 6.8C.1-2 and the number of SREGs per SCCE is given by Table
6.8C.1-1.

Table 6.8C.1-1: Number of SREGs per SCCE,

+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| CRS based SPDCCH                              | 4                          |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| DMRS based SPDCCH                             | 4 for a 2-symbol SPDCCH^1^ |
|                                               |                            |
|                                               | 6 for a 3-symbol SPDCCH^1^ |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| NOTE 1: see table 6.8C.5-1 and table 6.8C.5-2 |                            |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------------+

Table 6.8C.1-2: Supported SPDCCH formats

  SPDCCH format   Number of SCCEs for one SPDCCH,
  --------------- ---------------------------------
  0               1
  1               2
  2               4
  3               8

A UE shall monitor multiple SPDCCHs as defined in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].
One or two resource sets which a UE shall monitor for SPDCCH
transmissions in a slot/subslot can be configured. The SPDCCH can use
either localized or distributed transmission. All SPDCCH candidates in
SPDCCH set use either only localized or only distributed transmission as
configured by higher layers (see *transmissionType* in 3GPP TS 36.331
\[9\]). Similarly, all SPDCCH candidates in SPDCCH set use either only
CRS-based demodulation or only DMRS-based demodulation as configured by
higher layers (see *spdcch-SetReferenceSig* in 3GPP TS 36.331 \[9\]).
For a resource set with CRS-based SPDCCH, the distributed transmission
is implemented at the SREG level, i.e. in the SCCE-to-SREG mapping. For
a resource set with DMRS-based SPDCCH, the distributed transmission is
implemented at the SCCE level, i.e. in the SPDCCH candidate-to-SCCE
mapping.

The number of OFDM symbols spanned by a SPDCCH resource set configured
with CRS based demodulation can be configured to be one or two.

For slot based transmission, the number of OFDM symbols spanned by each
SPDCCH candidate of a resource set configured with DMRS-based
demodulation is fixed to 2. For subslot based transmission, the number
of OFDM symbols spanned by each SPDCCH candidate of a resource set
configured with DMRS-based demodulation is equal to the number of OFDM
symbols used for the subslot based PDSCH transmission (which depends on
the starting symbol index, as specified in Table 6.4.2-1).

The physical resource blocks in frequency domain constituting SPDCCH set
are in this paragraph assumed to be numbered in ascending order from 0
to . *For a CRS-based* SPDCCH*, SREGs within an SPDCCH set are numbered
in a frequency-first time-second manner from 0 to, where* is the number
of configured OFDM symbols (OS)*. The frequency-first, time-second
mapping* of the SREGs within a SPDCCH set *is performed from the lowest*
resource block in frequency domain *to the highest* resource blocks in
frequency domain *for the first symbol, and from the highest* resource
block in frequency domain *to the lowest* resource block in frequency
domain *for the second symbol. For a DMRS-based SPDCCH, SREGs within an
SPDCCH set are numbered in a time-first frequency-second manner from 0
to.*

Within CRS-based SPDCCH set , the SCCEs available for transmission of
SPDCCHs are numbered from 0 to where for localized mapping and  for
distributed mapping. Within DMRS-based SPDCCH set , the SCCEs available
for transmission of SPDCCHs are numbered from 0 to where . The SCCE
number corresponds

\- SREGs numbered for localized SPDCCH mapping with CRS and DMRS based
demodulation and for distributed SPDCCH mapping with DMRS-based
demodulation

\- SREGs numbered for distributed SPDCCH mapping with CRS-based
demodulation.

where and is the number of SREGs per SCCE.

NOTE:represents the number of SREGs per each configured OFDM symbol in
the SPDCCH resource set and
![](media/image642.wmf){width="0.5583333333333333in"
height="0.24444444444444444in"}is the total number of SREGs in SPDCCH
resource set ![](media/image643.wmf){width="0.25555555555555554in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"}.

### 6.8C.2 Scrambling

The block of bits to be transmitted on an SPDCCH in a subframe shall be
scrambled, resulting in a block of scrambled bits according to

where the UE-specific scrambling sequence is given by clause 7.2. The
scrambling sequence generator shall be initialized with where is the
SPDCCH resource set number.

### 6.8C.3 Modulation

The block of scrambled bits shall be modulated as described in
clause 7.1, resulting in a block of complex-valued modulation symbols.
Table 6.8C.3-1 specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the
physical downlink control channel.

Table 6.8C.3-1: SPDCCH modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  SPDCCH             QPSK

### 6.8C.4 Layer mapping and precoding

In case of CRS based SPDCCH, layer mapping and precoding shall be done
according to clause 6.8.4 with PDCCH replaced by SPDCCH.

In case of DMRS based SPDCCH the layer mapping and precoding shall be
done according to clause 6.8A.4.

### 6.8C.5 Mapping to resource elements

The mapping to resource elements is defined by operations on vectors of
complex-valued symbols. Let
![](media/image647.wmf){width="1.5930555555555554in"
height="0.3020833333333333in"} denotes symbol vector $i$ and
![](media/image648.wmf){width="0.3951388888888889in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} represents the signal for antenna
port![](media/image649.wmf){width="9.305555555555556e-2in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}.

The block of vectors , shall be mapped in sequence starting with to
resource elements on the associated antenna port(s) which meet all of
the following criteria:

\- they are part of the SREGs assigned for the SPDCCH transmission, and

\- they are assumed by the UE not to be used for cell-specific reference
signals, where the positions of the cell-specific reference signals are
given by clause 6.10.1.2 with the number of antenna ports and the
frequency shift of cell-specific reference signals derived as described
in clause 6.10.1.2 unless other values for these parameters are provided
by clause 9.1.4.3 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and

\- they are assumed by the UE not to be used for transmission of:

\- UE-specific reference signal associated with SPDCCH

\- zero-power CSI reference signals, where the positions of the CSI
reference signals are given by clause 6.10.5.2. The configuration for
zero power CSI reference signals is

\- obtained as described in clause 6.10.5.2 unless other values are
provided by clause 9.1.4.3 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and

\- obtained by higher-layer configuration of up to five reserved CSI-RS
resources as part of the discovery signal configuration following the
procedure for zero-power CSI-RS in clause 6.10.5.2.

\- non-zero-power CSI reference signals for CSI reporting with the
configuration for non-zero power CSI reference signals for CSI reporting
obtained as described in clause 6.10.5.2.

\- The set of indices of where the SPDCCH can be mapped to is dependent
on if slot or subslot based SPDCCH is used, the subslot number, if CRS
or DMRS based SPDCCH is configured and the number of symbols used for
PDCCH. In case CRS based SPDCCH is configured, the set of indices is
also dependent on the number of symbols, , configured by higher layers
(see *spdcch-NoOfSymbols* in 3GPP TS 36.331 \[9\]), that the SPDCCH is
mapped over.

\- For slot-SPDCCH and for frame structure type 1 and 2, the set of
indices of for the second slot in the subframe is given in Table
6.8C.5-1. It can be noted that no SPDCCH is transmitted in the first
slot of the subframe, where the DCI instead is carried in PDCCH, see
\[3\].

\- For subslot-SPDCCH and for frame structure type 1, the set of indices
of for a given downlink subslot number in a subframe is given in Table
6.8C.5-2. It can be noted that for subslot number 0 where no SPDCCH is
transmitted, and the DCI is instead carried in PDCCH, see \[3\].

If has been precoded according to clause 6.3.4.3 and if there is an
uneven number of resource elements per PRB that fulfil all the above
criteria, is not mapped to the resource element of the PRB with largest
.

Resource elements belonging to synchronization signals, the core part of
PBCH, PBCH repetitions, or resource elements reserved for reference
signals in the mapping operation of PBCH but not used for transmission
of reference signals, shall be assumed available in the SPDCCH mapping
but not used for transmission of SPDCCH.

NOTE: For DMRS based SPDCCH, the UE is not required to use the PRGs of
size 2 (see 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\]) which is/are partially overlapped with
PBCH/PSS/SSS for SPDCCH monitoring.

For DMRS based SPDCCH, the mapping to resource elements on antenna port
, meeting the criteria above, shall be in increasing order of first the
index and then the index .

For localized and distributed CRS based SPDCCH, the SREGs of a SPDCCH
candidate are first interleaved according to step 1 below and then the
modulated symbols are mapped to resource elements of the interleaved
SREGs according to step 2 below.

\- Step 1: Perform a block interleaver on the SREGs building the SPDCCH
candidate, where the number of rows equal to the number of SCCEs for the
SPDCCH candidate and the number of columns equal to 4 (i.e. the number
of SREGs in an SCCE). The SREGs are written into the matrix row by row
and read out column by column.

\- Step 2: The modulated symbols are mapped in sequence starting with
![](media/image653.wmf){width="0.5in" height="0.19791666666666666in"} to
resource elements ![](media/image654.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}on antenna port
![](media/image649.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} in increasing order of the index k,
meeting the criteria above, over the interleaved SREGs in the order
given by the block interleaver of step 1.

Table 6.8C.5-1: Set of indices of for slot-SPDCCH

  DMRS based SPDCCH   CRS based SPDCCH   
  ------------------- ------------------ --
                                         
                                         

Table 6.8C.5-2: Set of indices of for subslot-SPDCCH

  Number of symbols used for PDCCH   Subslot index   Set of indicies of                      
  ---------------------------------- --------------- -------------------- ------------------ --
                                                     DMRS based SPDCCH    CRS based SPDCCH   
                                                                                             
  1 or 3                             1                                                       
  2                                  1                                                       
  1, 2 or 3                          2                                                       
  1, 2 or 3                          3                                                       
  1, 2 or 3                          4                                                       
  1, 2 or 3                          5                                                       

6.9 Physical hybrid ARQ indicator channel
-----------------------------------------

The PHICH carries the hybrid-ARQ ACK/NACK. Multiple PHICHs mapped to the
same set of resource elements constitute a PHICH group, where PHICHs
within the same PHICH group are separated through different orthogonal
sequences. A PHICH resource is identified by the index pair , where is
the PHICH group number and is the orthogonal sequence index within the
group.

For frame structure type 1 and type 3, the number of PHICH groups is
constant in all subframes and given by

where is provided by higher layers. The index ranges from to .

For frame structure type 2, the number of PHICH groups may vary between
subframes and is given by where is given by the expression above and is
given by Table 6.9-1 with the uplink-downlink configuration provided by
the higher-layer parameter *subframeAssignment*. The index in a subframe
with non-zero PHICH resources ranges from to .

Table 6.9-1: The factor for frame structure type 2

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Uplink-downlink\   Subframe number                                   
  configuration                                                        
  ------------------ ----------------- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
                     0                 1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9

  0                  2                 1   0   0   0   2   1   0   0   0

  1                  0                 1   0   0   1   0   1   0   0   1

  2                  0                 0   0   1   0   0   0   0   1   0

  3                  1                 0   0   0   0   0   0   0   1   1

  4                  0                 0   0   0   0   0   0   0   1   1

  5                  0                 0   0   0   0   0   0   0   1   0

  6                  1                 1   0   0   0   1   1   0   0   1
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.9.1 Modulation

The block of bits transmitted on one PHICH in one subframe shall be
modulated as described in clause 7.1, resulting in a block of
complex-valued modulation symbols, where . Table 6.9.1-1 specifies the
modulation mappings applicable for the physical hybrid ARQ indicator
channel.

Table 6.9.1-1: PHICH modulation schemes.

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  PHICH              BPSK

The block of modulation symbols shall be symbol-wise multiplied with an
orthogonal sequence and scrambled, resulting in a sequence of modulation
symbols according to

where

and is a cell-specific scrambling sequence generated according to clause
7.2. The scrambling sequence generator shall be initialised with at the
start of each subframe.

The sequence is given by Table 6.9.1-2 where the sequence index
corresponds to the PHICH number within the PHICH group.

Table 6.9.1-2: Orthogonal sequences for PHICH

  Sequence index   Orthogonal sequence    
  ---------------- ---------------------- ------------------------
                   Normal cyclic prefix   Extended cyclic prefix
  0                                       
  1                                       
  2                                       
  3                                       
  4                                       \-
  5                                       \-
  6                                       \-
  7                                       \-

### 6.9.2 Resource group alignment, layer mapping and precoding

The block of symbols should be first aligned with resource element group
size, resulting in a block of symbols , where for normal cyclic prefix;
and for extended cyclic prefix.

For normal cyclic prefix, , for .

For extended cyclic prefix,

for .

The block of symbols shall be mapped to layers and precoded, resulting
in a block of vectors , , where represents the signal for antenna port ,
and the number of cell-specific reference signals . The layer mapping
and precoding operation depends on the cyclic prefix length and the
number of antenna ports used for transmission of the PHICH. The PHICH
shall be transmitted on the same set of antenna ports as the PBCH.

For transmission on a single antenna port, , layer mapping and precoding
are defined by clauses 6.3.3.1 and 6.3.4.1, respectively, with .

For transmission on two antenna ports, , layer mapping and precoding are
defined by clauses 6.3.3.3 and 6.3.4.3, respectively, with .

For transmission on four antenna ports, , layer mapping is defined by
clause 6.3.3.3 with and precoding by

if for normal cyclic prefix, or for extended cyclic prefix, where is the
PHICH group number and , and by

otherwise for .

### 6.9.3 Mapping to resource elements

The sequence for each of the PHICH groups is defined by

where the sum is over all PHICHs in the PHICH group and represents the
symbol sequence from the :th PHICH in the PHICH group.

PHICH groups are mapped to PHICH mapping units.

For normal cyclic prefix, the mapping of PHICH group to PHICH mapping
unit is defined by

where

,

and where is given by Table 6.9-1.

For extended cyclic prefix, the mapping of PHICH group and to PHICH
mapping unit is defined by

where

and where is given by Table 6.9-1.

Let , denote symbol quadruplet for antenna port. Mapping to resource
elements is defined in terms of symbol quadruplets according to steps
1--10 below:

1\) For each value of

2\) Let denote the number of resource element groups not assigned to
PCFICH in OFDM symbol

3\) Number the resource-element groups not assigned to PCFICH in OFDM
symbol from 0 to, starting from the resource-element group with the
lowest frequency-domain index.

4\) Initialize (PHICH mapping unit number)

5\) For each value of

6\) Symbol-quadruplet from PHICH mapping unit is mapped to the
resource-element group represented by as defined in clause 6.2.4 where
the indices and are given by steps 7 and 8 below:

7\) The time-domain index is given by

8\) Set the frequency-domain index to the resource-element group
assigned the number in step 3 above, where is given by

in case of extended PHICH duration in MBSFN subframes, or extended PHICH
duration in subframes 1 and 6 for frame structure type 2, or extended
PHICH duration in subframe with the same duration as the DwPTS duration
of a special subframe configuration in frame structure type 3 and by

otherwise.

9\) Increase by 1.

10\) Repeat from step 5 until all PHICH mapping units have been
assigned.

The PHICH duration is configurable by higher layers according to Table
6.9.3-1.

The PHICH shall not be transmitted in MBSFN subframes with zero-size
non-MBSFN region.

Table 6.9.3-1: PHICH duration in MBSFN and non-MBSFN subframes

+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+
| PHICH         | Non-MBSFN     | MBSFN         |               |   |
| duration      | subframes     | subframes     |               |   |
+===============+===============+===============+===============+===+
|               | Subframes 1   | Subframe with | All other     |   |
|               | and 6         | the same      | cases         |   |
|               |               | duration as   |               |   |
|               | in case of    | the DwPTS     |               |   |
|               | frame         | duration of a |               |   |
|               | structure     | specifial     |               |   |
|               | type 2        | subframe      |               |   |
|               |               | configuration |               |   |
|               |               | in case of    |               |   |
|               |               | frame         |               |   |
|               |               | structure     |               |   |
|               |               | type 3        |               |   |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+
| Normal        | 1             | 1             | 1             | 1 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+
| Extended      | 2             | 2             | 3             | 2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+

6.10 Reference signals
----------------------

Six types of downlink reference signals are defined:

\- Cell-specific Reference Signal (CRS)

\- MBSFN reference signal

\- UE-specific Reference Signal (DM-RS) associated with PDSCH

\- DeModulation Reference Signal (DM-RS) associated with EPDCCH or
MPDCCH

\- Positioning Reference Signal (PRS)

\- CSI Reference Signal (CSI-RS)

There is one reference signal transmitted per downlink antenna port.

### 6.10.1 Cell-specific Reference Signal (CRS)

The UE may assume cell-specific reference signals are, unless otherwise
stated in \[4, clause 12\], transmitted in

\- all downlink subframes for frame structure type 1,

\- all downlink subframes and DwPTS for frame structure type 2,

\- non-empty subframes for frame structure type 3

in a cell supporting PDSCH transmission.

If special subframe configuration 10 is configured by the higher layer
signalling *ssp10-CRS-LessDwPTS*, the UE cannot assume that cell
specific reference signals are transmitted in the 5^th^ OFDM symbol of
the special subframe.

Cell-specific reference signals are transmitted on one or several of
antenna ports 0 to 3.

Cell-specific reference signals are transmitted in subframes where only.

#### 6.10.1.1 Sequence generation

The reference-signal sequence is defined by

where is the slot number within a radio frame and is the OFDM symbol
number within the slot. The pseudo-random sequence is defined in clause
7.2. The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised with at
the start of each OFDM symbol where

#### 6.10.1.2 Mapping to resource elements

The reference signal sequence shall be mapped to complex-valued
modulation symbols used as reference symbols for antenna port in slot
according to

where

The variables and define the position in the frequency domain for the
different reference signals where is given by

The cell-specific frequency shift is given by .

Resource elements used for transmission of cell-specific reference
signals on any of the antenna ports in a slot shall not be used for any
transmission on any other antenna port in the same slot and set to zero.

In an MBSFN subframe, cell-specific reference signals shall only be
transmitted in the non-MBSFN region of the MBSFN subframe.

Figures 6.10.1.2-1 and 6.10.1.2-2 illustrate the resource elements used
for reference signal transmission according to the above definition. The
notation is used to denote a resource element used for reference signal
transmission on antenna port.

Figure 6.10.1.2-1. Mapping of downlink reference signals (normal cyclic
prefix)

Figure 6.10.1.2-2. Mapping of downlink reference signals (extended
cyclic prefix)

### 6.10.2 MBSFN reference signals

MBSFN reference signals shall be transmitted in the MBSFN region of
MBSFN subframes/slots only when the PMCH is transmitted. MBSFN reference
signals are transmitted on antenna port 4.

For an MBMS-dedicated carrier configured with a single MBSFN area, and
for a PMCH transmitted with 0.37 kHz subcarrier spacing in slot $n$,
which is indicated to contain MCCH by higher layer parameter
*MCCH-Config:*

\- for MBSFN reference signal pattern type 1, the UE may assume that
MBSFN reference signals associated with the same
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{MBSFN}}$ are present in the three preceding slots
to slot $n$.

\- for MBSFN reference signal pattern type 2, the UE may assume that
MBSFN reference signals associated with the same
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{MBSFN}}$ are present in the preceding slot to slot
$n$.

MBSFN reference signals are defined for extended cyclic prefix only.

#### 6.10.2.1 Sequence generation

##### 6.10.2.1.1 Sequence generation for 15 kHz and 7.5 kHz subcarrier spacing

The MBSFN reference-signal sequence is defined by

where is the slot number within a radio frame and is the OFDM symbol
number within the slot. The pseudo-random sequence is defined in clause
7.2. The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised with at
the start of each OFDM symbol.

##### 6.10.2.1.2 Sequence generation for 1.25 kHz subcarrier spacing

The MBSFN reference-signal sequence is defined by

where is the subframe number within a radio frame and is the OFDM symbol
number within the subframe. The pseudo-random sequence is defined in
clause 7.2. The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised
with at the start of each OFDM symbol.

##### 6.10.2.1.3 Sequence generation for 2.5 kHz subcarrier spacing

The MBSFN reference-signal sequence
$r_{l,n_{\text{sf}}}\left( m \right)$ is defined by

$$r_{l,n_{\text{sf}}}\left( m \right) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left( 1 - 2c\left( 2m \right) \right) + j\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left( 1 - 2c\left( 2m + 1 \right) \right)$$

$$m = 0,1,\ldots,18N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{max,DL}} - 1$$

where $n_{\text{sf}}$ is the subframe number within a radio frame and
$l$ is the OFDM symbol number within the subframe. The pseudo-random
sequence $c\left( i \right)$ is defined in clause 7.2. The pseudo-random
sequence generator shall be initialised with

$$c_{\text{init}} = 2^{9}\left( 7\left( n_{\text{sf}} + 1 \right) + l + 1 \right)\left( 2N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{MBSFN}} + 1 \right) + N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{MBSFN}}$$

##### 6.10.2.1.4 Sequence generation for 0.37 kHz subcarrier spacing

The MBSFN reference-signal sequence $r_{l,n_{\text{s}}}\left( m \right)$
is defined by

$$r_{l,n_{\text{s}}}\left( m \right) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left( 1 - 2c\left( 2m \right) \right) + j\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left( 1 - 2c\left( 2m + 1 \right) \right)$$

$$\begin{matrix}
m = 0,1,\ldots,\frac{N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}}{12}N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{max,DL}} - 1 & \text{for\ MBSFN\ reference\ signal\ pattern\ type\ 1} \\
m = 0,1,\ldots,\frac{N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}}{6}N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{max,DL}} - 1 & \text{for\ MBSFN\ reference\ signal\ pattern\ type\ 2} \\
\end{matrix}$$

where $n_{\text{s}}$ is the 3 ms slot number within the 40 ms period and
$l$ is the OFDM symbol number within the slot. The pseudo-random
sequence $c\left( i \right)$ is defined in clause 7.2. The pseudo-random
sequence generator shall be initialised with

$$c_{\text{init}} = 2^{9}\left( 7\left( n_{\text{s}} + 1 \right) + l + 1 \right)\left( 2N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{MBSFN}} + 1 \right) + N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{MBSFN}}$$

#### 6.10.2.2 Mapping to resource elements

##### 6.10.2.2.1 Mapping to resource elements for 15 kHz and 7.5 kHz subcarrier spacing

The reference-signal sequence in OFDM symbol shall be mapped to
complex-valued modulation symbols with according to

where

Figure 6.10.2.2-1 illustrates the resource elements used for MBSFN
reference signal transmission in case of . In case of , the MBSFN
reference signal shall be mapped to resource elements according to
Figure 6.10.2.2-3. The notation is used to denote a resource element
used for reference signal transmission on antenna port.

Figure 6.10.2.2-1: Mapping of MBSFN reference signals (extended cyclic
prefix, )

Figure 6.10.2.2-3: Mapping of MBSFN reference signals (extended cyclic
prefix, )

##### 6.10.2.2.2 Mapping to resource elements for 1.25 kHz

The reference-signal sequence in OFDM symbol shall be mapped to
complex-valued modulation symbols with according to

where

##### 6.10.2.2.3 Mapping to resource elements for 2.5 kHz subcarrier spacing

The reference-signal sequence $r_{l,n_{\text{sf}}}\left( m' \right)$ in
OFDM symbol $l$ shall be mapped to complex-valued modulation symbols
$a_{k,l}^{(p)}$ with $p = 4$ according to

$$a_{k,l}^{(p)} = r_{l,n_{\text{sf}}}\left( m' \right)$$

where

$${k = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
4m & \text{if}\ l = 0 \\
4m + 2 & \text{if}\ l = 1 \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ 
}{l = 0,1
}{m = 0,1,\ldots,\frac{N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}}{4}N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}} - 1
}{m^{'} = m + \frac{N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}}{4}\Delta
}{\Delta = \frac{N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{max,DL}} - N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}}}{2}}$$

##### 6.10.2.2.4 Mapping to resource elements for 0.37 kHz subcarrier spacing

The reference-signal sequence $r_{l}\left( m' \right)$ in OFDM symbol
$l$ shall be mapped to complex-valued modulation symbols $a_{k,l}^{(p)}$
with $p = 4$ according to

$$a_{k,l}^{(p)} = r_{l,n_{\text{s}}}\left( m' \right)$$

when

$$0 \leq k < N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}}$$

and where ${\widetilde{n}}_{\text{s}}$ is the 3ms absolute slot number,
defined as ${\widetilde{n}}_{\text{s}} =$
$n_{\text{s}} + 13\left\lfloor n_{\text{f}}/4 \right\rfloor,$
$n_{\text{s}}$ is the 3 ms slot number as defined in clause 4.1 and

\- for MBSFN reference signal pattern type 1

$${k = 12\left( m^{'} - \left\lfloor \frac{N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}}{12}\Delta \right\rfloor \right) + 3\left( {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{s}}\text{\ mod\ }4 \right)
}{l = 0
}{\Delta = \frac{N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{max,DL}} - N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}}}{2}
}{m^{'} = 0,1,\ldots,\frac{N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}}{12}N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{max,DL}} - 1}$$

\- for MBSFN reference signal pattern type 2

$${k = 6\left( m^{'} - \left\lfloor \frac{N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}}{6}\Delta \right\rfloor \right) + 3\left( {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{s}}\text{\ mod\ }2 \right)
}{l = 0
}{\Delta = \frac{N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{max,DL}} - N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{DL}}}{2}
}{m^{'} = 0,1,\ldots,\frac{N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}}{6}N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{max,DL}} - 1}$$

### 6.10.3 UE-specific reference signals associated with PDSCH

UE-specific reference signals associated with PDSCH

\- are transmitted on antenna port(s) , , , ,, , , or on the antenna
ports indicated in Table 6.3.4.4-1, where is the number of layers used
for transmission of the PDSCH;

\- are present and are a valid reference for PDSCH demodulation only if
the PDSCH transmission is associated with the corresponding antenna port
according to clause 7.1 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\];

\- are transmitted only on the physical resource blocks upon which the
corresponding PDSCH is mapped.

A UE-specific reference signal associated with PDSCH is not transmitted
in resource elements in which one of the physical channels or physical
signals other than the UE-specific reference signals defined in 6.1 are
transmitted using resource elements with the same index pair regardless
of their antenna port .

A UE-specific reference signal associated with subslot-PDSCH or
slot-PDSCH is only transmitted in physical resource blocks in frequency
domain assigned for PDSCH transmission where

\- the assignment maps to both physical resource blocks of a given PRG
(see clause 6.4.2);

\- in case of subslot-PDSCH, the associated SPDCCH is not mapped to
resource elements of a given PRG assigned for PDSCH transmission (see
clause 6.4.2)..

For frame structure type 3, for PDSCH in a subframe with the same
duration as the DwPTS duration of a special subframe configuration, the
UE-specific reference signals are defined the same as that for the
corresponding special subframe configuration.

#### 6.10.3.1 Sequence generation

For antenna port 5, the UE-specific reference-signal sequence is defined
by

where denotes the assigned bandwidth in resource blocks of the
corresponding PDSCH transmission. The pseudo-random sequence is defined
in clause 7.2. The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised
with at the start of each subframe where is as described in clause 7.1
3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\].

For any of the antenna ports , the reference-signal sequence is defined
by

.

The pseudo-random sequence is defined in clause 7.2. The pseudo-random
sequence generator shall be initialised with

at the start of each subframe.

For BL/CE UEs, the same scrambling sequence is applied per subframe to
the UE-specific reference-signal sequence for a given block of
subframes. The subframe number of the first subframe in each block of
consecutive subframes, denoted as , satisfies . For the block of
subframes, the scrambling sequence generator shall be initialised with

where

and is the absolute subframe number of the first downlink subframe
intended for PDSCH. The PDSCH transmissions span consecutive subframes,
including subframes that are not BL/CE DL subframes where the PDSCH
transmission is postponed. For a BL/CE UE configured in CEModeA, . For a
BL/CE UE configured with CEModeB, for frame structure type 1 and for
frame structure type 2.

The quantities , , are given by

\- if no value for is provided by higher layers or if DCI format 1A, 2B
or 2C is used for the DCI associated with the PDSCH transmission

\- otherwise

The value of is zero unless specified otherwise. For a PDSCH
transmission on ports 7 or 8, is given by the DCI format 2B, 2C, 2D,
6-1A, 7-1E, 7-1F and 7-1G in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\] associated with the
PDSCH transmission.\
In the case of DCI format 2B or 7-1E, is indicated by the scrambling
identity field according to Table 6.10.3.1-1. In the case of DCI format
2C or 2D, is given by Table 5.3.3.1.5C-1, Table 5.3.3.1.5C-2 or Table
5.3.3.1.5C-6 in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\]. In the case of DCI format 7-1F or
7-1G, is given by Table 5.3.3.1.22-1, Table 5.3.3.1.22-2, Table
5.3.3.1.22-3 or Table 5.3.3.1.5C-6 in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\]. For a PDSCH
transmission on ports 11 or 13, is given by the DCI format 2C or 2D in
3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\] associated with the PDSCH transmission where is
given by Table 5.3.3.1.5C-2 in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\].

Table 6.10.3.1-1: Mapping of scrambling identity field in DCI format 2B
to values for antenna ports 7 and 8

+------------------------------+---+
| Scrambling identity field in |   |
|                              |   |
| DCI format 2B                |   |
|                              |   |
| (3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\])       |   |
+==============================+===+
| 0                            | 0 |
+------------------------------+---+
| 1                            | 1 |
+------------------------------+---+

#### 6.10.3.2 Mapping to resource elements

For antenna port 5, in a physical resource block with frequency-domain
index assigned for the corresponding PDSCH transmission, the reference
signal sequence shall be mapped to complex-valued modulation symbols
with in a subframe according to:

Normal cyclic prefix:

Extended cyclic prefix:

where is the counter of UE-specific reference signal resource elements
within a respective OFDM symbol of the PDSCH transmission.

The cell-specific frequency shift is given by .

The mapping shall be in increasing order of the frequency-domain index
of the physical resource blocks assigned for the corresponding PDSCH
transmission. The quantity denotes the assigned bandwidth in resource
blocks of the corresponding PDSCH transmission.

Figure 6.10.3.2-1 illustrates the resource elements used for UE-specific
reference signals for normal cyclic prefix for antenna port 5.

Figure 6.10.3.2-2 illustrates the resource elements used for UE-specific
reference signals for extended cyclic prefix for antenna port 5.

The notation is used to denote a resource element used for reference
signal transmission on antenna port.

Figure 6.10.3.2-1: Mapping of UE-specific reference signals, antenna
port 5 (normal cyclic prefix)

Figure 6.10.3.2-2: Mapping of UE-specific reference signals, antenna
port 5 (extended cyclic prefix)

For antenna ports , , , , , , or the antenna ports indicated in Table
6.3.4.4-1 in a physical resource block with frequency-domain index
assigned for the corresponding PDSCH transmission, a part of the
reference signal sequence shall be mapped to complex-valued modulation
symbols in a subframe according to

Normal cyclic prefix:

where

The sequence is given by Table 6.10.3.2-1.

Table 6.10.3.2-1: The sequence for normal cyclic prefix

  Antenna port   
  -------------- --
  7              
  8              
  9              
  10             
  11             
  12             
  13             
  14             

Extended cyclic prefix:

where

The sequence is given by Table 6.10.3.2-2.

Table 6.10.3.2-2: The sequence for extended cyclic prefix and for
slot/subslot-PDSCH

  Antenna port   
  -------------- --
  7              
  8              
  9              
  10             

For extended cyclic prefix, UE-specific reference signals are not
supported on antenna ports 9 to 14.

For slot-PDSCH transmission, the baseline pattern (see \'Baseline\' in
Figure 6.10.3.2-2A) of UE-specific reference signals is defined as
follows. It is applied in MBSFN subframes.

where

\-

\-

\-

\- $l = l_{0} + l'$

\-

\-

and

\- $l_{0} = 3$ if the slot where the PDSCH is transmitted in () fulfils

\- $l_{0} = 2$ if the slot where the PDSCH is transmitted in () fulfils

The sequence is given by Table 6.10.3.2-2.

For slot-PDSCH transmission in normal subframes,is generated as for the
baseline slot-PDSCH UE-specific reference signal pattern for the same
values of , while is given by and depends on the *cell-specific
frequency shift* *as follows* (see \'v0\', \'v1\' and \'v2\' in Figure
6.10.3.2-2A for $v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 0$,
$v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 1$, and
$v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 2$, respectively):

\- For $v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 0$,
$k^{'} = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
2,\ 7,\ 11 & p \in \left\{ 7,8 \right\} \\
1,\ 5,\ 10 & p \in \left\{ 9,10 \right\} \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $,

\- For $v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 1$,
$k^{'} = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
2,\ 6,\ 11 & p \in \left\{ 7,8 \right\} \\
0,\ 5,\ 9 & p \in \left\{ 9,10 \right\} \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $,

\- For $v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 2$,
$k^{'} = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
1,\ 6,\ 10 & p \in \left\{ 7,8 \right\} \\
0,\ 4,\ 9 & p \in \left\{ 9,10 \right\} \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $.

Figure 6.10.3.2-2A: Mapping of UE-specific reference signals for
slot-PDSCH, antenna ports 7, 8, 9 and 10 (normal cyclic prefix)

For subslot-PDSCH transmission, the baseline pattern (see \'Baseline\'
in Figure 6.10.3.2-2B) of UE-specific reference signals is defined as
follows. It is applied if the presence of UE-specific reference signals
is indicated in the DCI associated with the subslot-PDSCH (see *DMRS
position indicator* field in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\]), and in downlink
subslots where the baseline pattern, **including all the REs associated
with** ** if the parameter *maxLayersMIMO-STTI* is configured with 2
layers, or** ![](media/image868.wmf){width="0.8951388888888889in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} **if the parameter *maxLayersMIMO-STTI*
 is configured with 4 layers,** has no overlapping resource element with
CRS and no overlapping resource element with configured *zero-power and
non-zero-power CSI reference signals*:

where

The sequence is given by Table 6.10.3.2-2.For subslot-PDSCH transmission
in normal subframes, *in* downlink subslots where the baseline pattern,
**including all the REs associated with** **if the parameter
*maxLayersMIMO-STTI* is configured with 2 layers, or**
![](media/image868.wmf){width="0.8951388888888889in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} **if the parameter *maxLayersMIMO-STTI*
 is configured with 4 layers,** has overlapping resource elements with
*configured zero-power or non-zero-power CSI reference signals or* has
overlapping resource elements with *CRS,* if the presence of UE-specific
reference signals is indicated in the DCI associated (see *DMRS position
indicator* field in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\]) with the subslot-PDSCH, a
shifted pattern of UE-specific reference signals is applied. In the
shifted pattern,is generated as for the baseline subslot-PDSCH
UE-specific reference signal pattern for the same value of , while is
given by and depends on the *cell-specific frequency shift* *as follows*
(see also \'v0\',\'v1\' and \'v2\' in Figure 6.10.3.2-2B for
$v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 0$,
$v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 1$, and
$v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 2$, respectively):

\- For $v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 0$,
$k^{'} = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
2,\ 8 & p \in \left\{ 7,\ 8 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 0 \\
4,\ 11 & p \in \left\{ 7,\ 8 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 1 \\
1,\ 7 & p \in \left\{ 9,\ 10 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 0 \\
2,\ 10 & p \in \left\{ 9,\ 10 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 1 \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $,

\- For $v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 1$,
$k^{'} = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
2,\ 8 & p \in \left\{ 7,\ 8 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 0 \\
3,\ 11 & p \in \left\{ 7,\ 8 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 1 \\
0,\ 6 & p \in \left\{ 9,\ 10 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 0 \\
2,\ 9 & p \in \left\{ 9,\ 10 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 1 \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $,

\- For $v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 2$,
$k^{'} = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
1,\ 9 & p \in \left\{ 7,\ 8 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 0 \\
3,\ 10 & p \in \left\{ 7,\ 8 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 1 \\
0,\ 7 & p \in \left\{ 9,\ 10 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 0 \\
1,\ 9 & p \in \left\{ 9,\ 10 \right\}\ \text{and}\ n_{\text{PRB}}\ \text{mod}\ 2 = 1 \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $,

For subslot-PDSCH transmission in MBSFN subframes, in downlink subslots
where the baseline pattern, **including all the REs associated with**
**if the parameter *maxLayersMIMO-STTI* is configured with 2 layers,
or** ![](media/image868.wmf){width="0.8951388888888889in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} **if the parameter *maxLayersMIMO-STTI*
 is configured with 4 layers,** has overlapping resource elements with
*configured zero-power or non-zero-power CSI reference signals,* if the
presence of UE-specific reference signals is indicated in the DCI
associated (see *DMRS position indicator* field in 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\])
with the subslot-PDSCH, the shifted pattern of UE-specific reference
signals for , as defined above, is applied (see \'v0\' in Figure
6.10.3.2-2B for $v_{\text{shift}}\ \text{mod}\ 3 = 0$).

Figure 6.10.3.2-2B: Mapping of UE-specific reference signals for
subslot-PDSCH, antenna ports 7, 8, 9 and 10 (normal cyclic prefix)

Resource elements used for transmission of UE-specific reference signals
to one UE on any of the antenna ports in the set , where or shall

\- not be used for transmission of PDSCH on any antenna port in the same
slot, and

\- not be used for UE-specific reference signals to the same UE on any
antenna port other than those in in the same slot.

Figure 6.10.3.2-3 illustrates the resource elements used for UE-specific
reference signals for normal cyclic prefix for antenna ports 7, 8, 9 and
10. Figure 6.10.3.2-4 illustrates the resource elements used for
UE-specific reference signals for extended cyclic prefix for antenna
ports 7, 8.

For BL/CE UEs, if downlink resource reservation is enabled for the UE as
specified in \[9\], and the Resource reservation field in the DCI is set
to 1, then in case of PDSCH transmission associated with C-RNTI or SPS
C-RNTI using UE-specific MPDCCH search space including PDSCH
transmission without a corresponding MPDCCH,

\- If all OFDM symbols in a PRB are reserved, the demodulation reference
signal transmission in that PRB is dropped.

Figure 6.10.3.2-3: Mapping of UE-specific reference signals, antenna
ports 7, 8, 9 and 10 (normal cyclic prefix)

Figure 6.10.3.2-4: Mapping of UE-specific reference signals, antenna
ports 7 and 8 (extended cyclic prefix)

### 6.10.3A Demodulation reference signals associated with EPDCCH, MPDCCH, or SPDCCH

The demodulation reference signal associated with EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH

\- is transmitted on the same antenna port as the associated
EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH physical resource;

\- is present and is a valid reference for EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH
demodulation only if the EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH transmission is associated
with the corresponding antenna port;

\- is transmitted only on the physical resource blocks upon which the
corresponding EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH is mapped.

A demodulation reference signal associated with EPDCCH/MPDCCH/SPDCCH is
not transmitted in resource elements in which one of the physical
channels or physical signals other than the demodulation reference
signals defined in 6.1 are transmitted using resource elements with the
same index pair regardless of their antenna port .

#### 6.10.3A.1 Sequence generation

For any of the antenna ports , the reference-signal sequence is defined
by

.

For non-BL/CE UEs, the pseudo-random sequence is defined in clause 7.2.
The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised with

at the start of each subframe where

\- and shall be replaced by and , respectively, for the EPDCCH

\- and shall be replaced by and , respectively, for the SPDCCH

\- , , and

\- is configured by higher layers.

The EPDCCH/SPDCCH set to which the EPDCCH/SPDCCH associated with the
demodulation reference signal belong is denoted .

For BL/CE UEs, the same scrambling sequence is applied per subframe to
the demodulation reference signal associated with MPDCCH for a given
block of subframes. The subframe number of the first subframe in each
block of consecutive subframes, denoted as , satisfies . For the block
of subframes, the scrambling sequence generator shall be initialised
with

where

and is the absolute subframe number of the first downlink subframe
intended for MPDCCH. The MPDCCH transmissions span consecutive
subframes, including subframes that are not BL/CE DL subframes where the
MPDCCH transmission is postponed.

For BL/CE UEs,

\- if the MPDCCH transmission is associated with P-RNTI or SC-RNTI:

\- ![](media/image896.wmf){width="0.5347222222222222in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"} for frame structure type 1 and
![](media/image897.wmf){width="0.58125in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"} for frame structure type 2

\- otherwise

\- ![](media/image898.wmf){width="0.5in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"}for UEs assuming CEModeA (according to
the definition in Clause 12 of \[4\]) or configured with CEModeA.

\- ![](media/image896.wmf){width="0.5347222222222222in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"} for frame structure type 1 and
![](media/image897.wmf){width="0.58125in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"} for frame structure type 2 for UEs
assuming CEModeB (according to the definition in Clause 12 of \[4\]) or
configured with CEModeB.

The quantities and are configured by higher layers. The MPDCCH set to
which the MPDCCH associated with the demodulation reference signal
belong is denoted . For an MPDCCH associated with a 2+4 PRB set as
defined in \[4\], is used to generate the scrambling sequence for the 6
PRBs as well as for the 2 PRBs and 4 PRBs.

#### 6.10.3A.2 Mapping to resource elements

For the antenna port in a physical resource block assigned for the
associated EPDCCH/MPDCCH, a part of the reference signal sequence shall
be mapped to complex-valued modulation symbols in a subframe according
to

Normal cyclic prefix:

where

The sequence is given by Table 6.10.3A.2-1.

Table 6.10.3A.2-1: The sequence for normal cyclic prefix

  Antenna port   
  -------------- --
  107            
  108            
  109            
  110            

Extended cyclic prefix:

where

The sequence is given by Table 6.10.3A.2-2.

Table 6.10.3A.2-2: The sequence for extended cyclic prefix

  Antenna port   
  -------------- --
  107            
  108            

For extended cyclic prefix, demodulation reference signals are not
supported on antenna ports 109 to 110.

For the antenna port in a physical resource block assigned for the
SPDCCH, a part of the reference signal sequence shall be mapped to
complex-valued modulation symbols in a subframe according to the
procedure used for UE-specific reference signals associated with
subslot-PDSCH on antenna port described in clause 6.10.3.2 with the
following amendments:

\- for slot-SPDCCH, ,

\- for slot-SPDCCH in MBSFN subframes, the procedure used for the
baseline pattern of UE-specific reference signals associated with
subslot-PDSCH is applied

\- for slot-SPDCCH in normal subframes, the procedure used for the
shifted pattern of UE-specific reference signals associated with
subslot-PDSCH depending on the *cell-specific frequency shift* is
applied.

Resource elements used for transmission of demodulation reference
signals to one UE on any of the antenna ports in the set , where or
shall

\- not be used for transmission of EPDCCH/MPDCCH on any antenna port in
the same slot, and

\- not be used for demodulation reference signals to the same UE on any
antenna port other than those in in the same slot.

Replacing antenna port numbers 7 -- 10 by 107 -- 110 in Figure
6.10.3.2-3 provides an illustration of the resource elements used for
demodulation reference signals associated with EPDCCH/MPDCCH for normal
cyclic prefix. Replacing antenna port numbers 7 -- 8 by 107 -- 108 in
Figure 6.10.3.2-4 provides an illustration of the resource elements used
for demodulation reference signals associated with EPDCCH/MPDCCH for
extended cyclic prefix.

For frame structure type 3, for EPDCCH in a subframe with the same
duration as the DwPTS duration of a special subframe configuration, the
mapping of the demodulation reference signals to the resource elements
is the same as that for the corresponding special subframe
configuration.

For BL/CE UEs, if downlink resource reservation is enabled for the UE as
specified in \[9\], then in case of MPDCCH transmission associated with
C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI using UE-specific MPDCCH search space,

\- If all OFDM symbols in a PRB are reserved, the demodulation reference
signal transmission in that PRB is dropped.

### 6.10.4 Positioning reference signals

Positioning reference signals shall only be transmitted in resource
blocks in downlink subframes configured for positioning reference signal
transmission. If both normal and MBSFN subframes are configured as
positioning subframes within a cell, the OFDM symbols in a MBSFN
subframe configured for positioning reference signal transmission shall
use the same cyclic prefix as used for subframe \#0. If only MBSFN
subframes are configured as positioning subframes within a cell, the
OFDM symbols configured for positioning reference signals in the MBSFN
region of these subframes shall use extended cyclic prefix length. In a
subframe configured for positioning reference signal transmission, the
starting positions of the OFDM symbols configured for positioning
reference signal transmission shall be identical to those in a subframe
in which all OFDM symbols have the same cyclic prefix length as the OFDM
symbols configured for positioning reference signal transmission.

Positioning reference signals are transmitted on antenna port 6.

The positioning reference signals shall not be mapped to resource
elements allocated to the core part of the PBCH, PSS or SSS regardless
of their antenna port .

Positioning reference signals are defined for only.

#### 6.10.4.1 Sequence generation

The reference-signal sequence is defined by

where is the slot number within a radio frame, is the OFDM symbol number
within the slot. The pseudo-random sequence is defined in clause 7.2.
The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised with at the
start of each OFDM symbol where equals unless configured by higher
layers and where

#### 6.10.4.2 Mapping to resource elements

If PRS frequency hopping is not configured by higher layers, the
reference signal sequence shall be mapped to complex-valued modulation
symbols used as reference signal for antenna port in slot according to

where

Normal cyclic prefix:

Extended cyclic prefix:

The bandwidth for positioning reference signals is configured by higher
layers and the cell-specific frequency shift is given by where if no
value for is configured by higher layers.

If PRS frequency hopping is configured by higher layers, a PRS frequency
hopping configuration provided by higher layers contains the following:

\- The length of the PRS occasion group,

\- Number of PRS frequency hopping bands,

\- defined as twice the starting PRB index of PRS frequency hopping band
where

\- if ,

\- where is the index of the first PRB in the PRS frequency hopping
narrowband configured by higher layers if

If PRS frequency hopping is configured by higher layers, the reference
signal sequence in the PRS occasion , , in the PRS occasion group shall
be mapped to complex-valued modulation symbols used as reference signal
for antenna port in slot according to

where

\- for normal cyclic prefix

\- for extended cyclic prefix

Figure 6.10.4.2-1: Mapping of positioning reference signals (normal
cyclic prefix)

Figure 6.10.4.2-2: Mapping of positioning reference signals (extended
cyclic prefix)

#### 6.10.4.3 Positioning reference signal subframe configuration

The subframe configuration period and the subframe offset for the
transmission of positioning reference signals are listed in Table
6.10.4.3-1. The PRS configuration index is configured by higher layers.
Positioning reference signals are transmitted only in configured DL
subframes. Positioning reference signals shall not be transmitted in
DwPTS. Positioning reference signals shall be transmitted in consecutive
downlink subframes, where is configured by higher layers.

The positioning reference signal instances, for the first subframe of
the downlink subframes, shall satisfy .

Table 6.10.4.3-1: Positioning reference signal subframe configuration

+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| PRS configuration Index | PRS periodicity | PRS subframe offset |
|                         |                 |                     |
|                         | (subframes)     | (subframes)         |
+=========================+=================+=====================+
| 0 -- 159                | 160             |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 160 -- 479              | 320             |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 480 -- 1119             | 640             |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 1120 -- 2399            | 1280            |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 2400 -- 2404            | 5               |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 2405 -- 2414            | 10              |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 2415 -- 2434            | 20              |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 2435 -- 2474            | 40              |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 2475 -- 2554            | 80              |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
| 2555-4095               | Reserved        |                     |
+-------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+

### 6.10.5 CSI reference signals

CSI reference signals are transmitted on 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28,
or 32 antenna ports using , , , , , ,, , and, respectively.

For CSI reference signals using more than eight antenna ports, CSI-RS
configurations in the same subframe, numbered from 0 to , where value 0
corresponds to the configured *resourceConfig-r11* or
*resourceConfig-r10* and value *k* (*k\>*0) corresponds to the
configured *k-*th entry of *NZP-ResourceConfig-r13* from an aggregated
list consisting of *nzp-resourceConfigList-r13* followed by
*nzp-resourceConfigListExt-r14* (if configured), are aggregated to
obtain antenna ports in total. Each CSI-RS configuration in such an
aggregation corresponds to antenna ports and one of the configurations
in the range 0-19 in Table 6.10.5.2-1 for normal cyclic prefix, and one
of the configurations in the range 0-15 in Table 6.10.5.2-2 for extended
cyclic prefix. The supported configurations of aggregated CSI-RS
configurations are shown in Table 6.10.5-1. If the higher layer
parameter *NZP-TransmissionComb* is not configured, unique CSI-RS
configurations from Table 6.10.5.2-1 for normal cyclic prefix and from
Table 6.10.5.2-2 for extended cyclic prefix are aggregated to form 12,
16, 20, 24, 28, or 32 antenna ports.

For CSI reference signals using more than sixteen antenna ports, when
higher layer parameter *NZP-TransmissionComb* is configured, the number
of unique CSI-RS configurations from Table 6.10.5.2-1 for normal cyclic
prefix and from Table 6.10.5.2-2 for extended cyclic prefix that are
aggregated to form 20, 24, 28, or 32 antenna ports can be less than or
equal to . The number of antenna ports within each such unique CSI-RS
resource configuration is an integer multiple of .

CSI reference signals are defined for only.

Table 6.10.5-1: Aggregation of CSI-RS configurations.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total number of\   Number of antenna ports per CSI-RS configuration   Number of CSI-RS configurations
  antenna ports                                                         
  ------------------ -------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  12                 4                                                  3

  16                 8                                                  2

  20                 4                                                  5

  24                 8                                                  3

  28                 4                                                  7

  32                 8                                                  4
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 6.10.5.1 Sequence generation

The reference-signal sequence is defined by

where is the slot number within a radio frame and is the OFDM symbol
number within the slot. The pseudo-random sequence is defined in clause
7.2. The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised with at
the start of each OFDM symbol where

The quantity equals unless configured by higher layers.

#### 6.10.5.2 Mapping to resource elements

In subframes configured for CSI reference signal transmission, the
reference signal sequence shall be mapped to complex-valued modulation
symbols used as reference symbols on antenna port . The mapping depends
on the higher-layer parameter *CDMType*.

For the case of *CDMType* is not configured or is configured to CDM2:

where

For the case of *CDMType* equal to *CDM4*:

where

and where is given by Table 6.10.5.2-0.

Table 6.10.5.2-0: The sequence for *CDM4*.

                                                                              ![](media/image988.wmf){width="1.91875in" height="0.2791666666666667in"}    
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- --
  ![](media/image989.wmf){width="0.58125in" height="0.25555555555555554in"}   ![](media/image990.wmf){width="0.58125in" height="0.25555555555555554in"}   
  15                                                                          15,17                                                                       
  16                                                                          16,18                                                                       
  17                                                                          19,21                                                                       
  18                                                                          20,22                                                                       

If neither of the higher-layer parameters *NZP-FrequencyDensity* and
*NZP-TransmissionComb* are configured, .

If the UE is configured with one or more of the parameters
*NZP-FrequencyDensity* and *NZP-TransmissionComb*,

\- if either *NZP-FrequencyDensity* equals 1,

\- if *NZP-FrequencyDensity* equals 1/2 and *NZP-TransmissionComb*
equals 0,

\- if *NZP-FrequencyDensity* equals 1/2 and *NZP-TransmissionComb*
equals 1,

> \- if *NZP-FrequencyDensity* equals 1/3 and *NZP-TransmissionComb*
> equals 0,
>
> \- if *NZP-FrequencyDensity* equals 1/3 and *NZP-TransmissionComb*
> equals 1,
>
> \- if *NZP-FrequencyDensity* equals 1/3 and *NZP-TransmissionComb*
> equals 2,

The quantity and the necessary conditions on are given by Tables
6.10.5.2-1 and 6.10.5.2-2 for normal and extended cyclic prefix,
respectively.

The relation between the antenna port number and the quantity depends on
the number of CSI-RS antenna ports:

\- for CSI reference signals using up to eight antenna ports,

\- for CSI reference signals using more than eight antenna ports when
the higher-layer parameter *CDMType* equals *CDM2*

where is the CSI-RS resource number.

\- for CSI reference signals using more than eight antenna ports when
the higher-layer parameter *CDMType* equals *CDM4*, antenna port number
where for CSI-RS resource number .

For the case of *CDMType* equal to *CDM8* and the number of CSI-RS
antenna ports equal to 32:

where

The resource elements for the CDM8 pattern, where , are determined by
aggregating pairs of resource elements satisfying from the aggregated
CSI-RS configurations, where at most one pair of resource elements is
drawn from each of the aggregated CSI-RS configurations. For the case of
*CDMType* equal to *CDM8* and the number of CSI-RS antenna ports equal
to 32, the aggregated CSI-RS configurations from Table 6.10.5.2-1 for
normal cyclic prefix and from Table 6.10.5.2-2 for extended cyclic
prefix are restricted to one of , , or . Antenna port number where for
CSI-RS resource number . The sequence is given by Table 6.10.5.2-0A,
where .

Table 6.10.5.2-0A: The sequence for *CDM8* with 32 CSI-RS antenna ports.

  ---------------- --
  15, 17, 19, 21   
  16, 18, 20, 22   
  23, 25, 27, 29   
  24, 26, 28, 30   
  31, 33, 35, 37   
  32, 34, 36, 38   
  39, 41, 43, 45   
  40, 42, 44, 46   
  ---------------- --

For the case of *CDMType* equal to *CDM8* and the number of CSI-RS
antenna ports equal to 24:

where

For the case of *CDMType* equal to *CDM8* and the number of CSI-RS
antenna ports equal to 24, the aggregated CSI-RS configurations from
Table 6.10.5.2-1 for normal cyclic prefix are restricted to in that
order. Resource elements for CDM8 patterns are determined as follows:

\- Aggregating resource element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS
configuration 1 with resource element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS
configuration 2

\- Aggregating resource element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS
configuration 3 with resource element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS
configuration 1

\- Aggregating resource element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS
configuration 2 with resource element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS
configuration 3

Antenna port number where for CSI-RS resource number . The sequence is
given by Table 6.10.5.2-0B. The sequence index
![](media/image1042.wmf){width="9.305555555555556e-2in"
height="0.1625in"} is determined as follows:

\- For resource element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS configuration
1, resource element quadruplet satisfying
![](media/image1043.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} from CSI-RS configuration 2, or resource
element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS configuration 3,
![](media/image1044.wmf){width="0.6159722222222223in"
height="0.1625in"}.

\- For resource element quadruplet satisfying
![](media/image1043.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} from CSI-RS configuration 1, resource
element quadruplet satisfying from CSI-RS configuration 2, or resource
element quadruplet satisfying
![](media/image1043.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} from CSI-RS configuration 3,
![](media/image1045.wmf){width="0.7555555555555555in"
height="0.1625in"}.

Table 6.10.5.2-0B: The sequence for *CDM8* with 24 CSI-RS antenna ports.

  ------------ --
  15, 25, 31   
  16, 26, 32   
  19, 29, 35   
  20, 30, 36   
  17, 23, 33   
  18, 24, 34   
  21, 27, 37   
  22, 28, 38   
  ------------ --

Multiple CSI reference signal configurations can be used in a given
cell. A UE can be configured with multiple sets of CSI reference
signals,

\- one or more configurations for CSI reporting for which the UE shall
assume non-zero transmission power for the CSI-RS, and

\- zero or more configurations for which the UE shall assume zero
transmission power, and

\- zero or more configurations valid across the system downlink
bandwidth as part of the discovery signals for which the UE shall assume
non-zero transmission power for the CSI-RS.

The CSI-RS configurations for which the UE shall assume non-zero
transmission power are provided by higher layers.

The CSI-RS configurations for which the UE shall assume zero
transmission power in a subframe are given by a bitmap derived according
to clause 7.2.7 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\]. For each bit set to one in the
16-bit bitmap, the UE shall assume zero transmission power for the
resource elements corresponding to the four CSI reference signal column
in Tables 6.10.5.2-1 and 6.10.5.2-2 for normal and extended cyclic
prefix, respectively, except for resource elements that overlap with
those for which the UE shall assume non-zero transmission power CSI-RS
as configured by higher layers. The most significant bit corresponds to
the lowest CSI reference signal configuration index and subsequent bits
in the bitmap correspond to configurations with indices in increasing
order.

CSI reference signals not corresponding to higher layer configured
parameters *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* or *csi-RS-ConfigZP-ApList* can
only occur in

\- downlink slots where fulfils the condition in Tables 6.10.5.2-1 and
6.10.5.2-2 for normal and extended cyclic prefix, respectively, and

\- where the subframe number fulfils the conditions in clause 6.10.5.3.

CSI reference signals corresponding to either higher layer configured
parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* or *csi-RS-ConfigZP-ApList* can only
occur in

\- downlink slots where fulfils the condition in Tables 6.10.5.2-1 and
6.10.5.2-2 for normal and extended cyclic prefix, respectively.

The UE shall assume that CSI reference signals are not transmitted

\- in the DwPTS for special subframe configuration 0, 5, 9 and 10 for
normal cyclic prefix and special subframe configuration 0, 4 and 7 for
extended cyclic prefix, in case of frame structure type 2,

\- in the DwPTS for normal CP for the case of *CDMType* equal to *CDM8*
and the number of CSI-RS antenna ports equal to 24,

\- in subframes where PDSCH/EPDCCH transmission starts in the second
slot of a subframe for frame structure type 3,

\- in subframes where PDSCH/EPDCCH transmission ends prior to the end of
a subframe for frame structure type 3,

\- in an empty subframe where there is no PDSCH or discovery signal
transmission for frame structure type 3,

\- in subframes where transmission of a CSI-RS would collide with
*SystemInformationBlockType1* messages,

\- in the primary cell in subframes configured for transmission of
paging messages in the primary cell for any UE with the cell-specific
paging configuration.

For special subframe configuration {1, 2, 6, or 7}, a UE does not expect
to be configured with one of CSI-RS configurations {1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8,
9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17} in DwPTS for normal CP.

The UE shall assume that none of the CSI reference signals corresponding
to a CSI reference signal configuration are transmitted in subframes
where transmission of any of those CSI reference signals would collide
with transmission of synchronization signals or the core part of PBCH.

Resource elements used for transmission of CSI reference signals on any
of the antenna ports in the set , where , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , or
shall not be used for transmission of PDSCH on any antenna port in the
same slot if higher layer parameter *CDMType* is not configured, or is
configured to *CDM2*.

Resource elements used for transmission of CSI reference signals on any
of the antenna ports in the set , where

\- , or for CSI reference signals on 12 ports, or

\- , , or for CSI reference signals on 16 ports, or

\- , , , or for CSI reference signals on 20 ports, or

\- , , , , or for CSI reference signals on 24 ports, or

\- , , , ,, or for CSI reference signals on 28 ports, or

\- , , , , , , or for CSI reference signals on 32 ports

shall not be used for transmission of PDSCH on any antenna port in the
same slot if higher layer parameter *CDMType* is configured to *CDM4*.

Resource elements used for transmission of CSI reference signals on any
of the antenna ports in the set , where

\- , or for CSI reference signals on 24 ports, or

\- , , or for CSI reference signals on 32 ports

shall not be used for transmission of PDSCH on any antenna port in the
same slot if higher layer parameter *CDMType* is configured to *CDM8*.

The mapping for CSI reference signal configuration 0 is illustrated in
Figures 6.10.5.2-1 and 6.10.5.2-2.

Table 6.10.5.2-1: Mapping from CSI reference signal configuration to for
normal cyclic prefix

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  CSI-RS\   Number of CSI reference signals configured                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  config.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  --------- -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            1 or 2                                       4                                                                           8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

            Normal subframe                              Special subframe                                                            Normal subframe                                                                          Special subframe                                                            Normal subframe                                                                          Special subframe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

                                                         ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1088.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1089.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1088.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1089.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1089.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}

  0         (9,5)                                        0                                                                           (9,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,5)                                                                                    0

  1         (11,2)                                       1                                                                           (11,5)                                                                                   0                                                                           (11,2)                                                                                   1                                                                           (11,5)                                                                                   0                                                                           (11,2)                                                                                   1                                                                           (11,5)                                                                                   0

  2         (9,2)                                        1                                                                           (9,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,2)                                                                                    1

  3         (7,2)                                        1                                                                           (7,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (7,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (7,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (7,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (7,5)                                                                                    0

  4         (9,5)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (9,5)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (9,5)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                    

  5         (8,5)                                        0                                                                           (8,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (8,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (8,5)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  6         (10,2)                                       1                                                                           (10,5)                                                                                   0                                                                           (10,2)                                                                                   1                                                                           (10,5)                                                                                   0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  7         (8,2)                                        1                                                                           (8,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (8,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (8,2)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  8         (6,2)                                        1                                                                           (6,5)                                                                                    0                                                                           (6,2)                                                                                    1                                                                           (6,5)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  9         (8,5)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (8,5)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

  10        (3,5)                                        0                                                                           (3,5)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  11        (2,5)                                        0                                                                           (2,5)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  12        (5,2)                                        1                                                                           (5,5)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  13        (4,2)                                        1                                                                           (4,5)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  14        (3,2)                                        1                                                                           (3,2)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  15        (2,2)                                        1                                                                           (2,2)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  16        (1,2)                                        1                                                                           (1,5)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  17        (0,2)                                        1                                                                           (0,5)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  18        (3,5)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  19        (2,5)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  20        (11,1)                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (11,1)                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (11,1)                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    

  21        (9,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (9,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (9,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                    

  22        (7,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (7,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (7,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                    

  23        (10,1)                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (10,1)                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

  24        (8,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (8,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

  25        (6,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (6,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

  26        (5,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  27        (4,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  28        (3,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  29        (2,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  30        (1,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  31        (0,1)                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note: . Configurations 0 -- 19 for normal subframes are available for
frame structure types 1, 2 and 3. Configurations 20 -- 31 and
configurations for special subframes are available for frame structure
type 2 only.

Table 6.10.5.2-2: Mapping from CSI reference signal configuration to for
extended cyclic prefix.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  CSI-RS\   Number of CSI reference signals configured                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  config.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
  --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            1 or 2                                                                                   4                                                                           8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

            Normal subframe                                                                          Special subframe                                                            Normal subframe                                                                          Special subframe                                                            Normal Subframe                                                                          Special subframe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

            ![](media/image1088.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1088.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1089.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1088.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1089.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1089.wmf){width="0.36041666666666666in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}   ![](media/image1087.wmf){width="0.1625in" height="0.20902777777777778in"}

  0         (11,4)                                                                                   0                                                                           (11,4)                                                                                   0                                                                           (11,4)                                                                                   0                                                                           (11,4)                                                                                   0                                                                           (11,4)                                                                                   0                                                                           (11,4)                                                                                   0

  1         (9,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (9,4)                                                                                    0

  2         (10,4)                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (10,4)                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (10,4)                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    

  3         (9,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (9,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (9,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                    

  4         (5,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (5,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (5,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (5,4)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  5         (3,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (3,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (3,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (3,4)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  6         (4,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (4,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

  7         (3,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (3,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

  8         (8,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (8,4)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  9         (6,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (6,4)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  10        (2,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (2,4)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  11        (0,4)                                                                                    0                                                                           (0,4)                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  12        (7,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  13        (6,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  14        (1,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  15        (0,4)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  16        (11,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (11,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (11,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (11,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (11,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (11,1)                                                                                   1

  17        (10,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (10,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (10,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (10,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (10,1)                                                                                   1                                                                           (10,1)                                                                                   1

  18        (9,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (9,1)                                                                                    1

  19        (5,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (5,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (5,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (5,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  20        (4,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (4,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (4,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (4,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  21        (3,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (3,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (3,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (3,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  22        (8,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (8,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  23        (7,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (7,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  24        (6,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (6,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  25        (2,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (2,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  26        (1,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (1,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

  27        (0,1)                                                                                    1                                                                           (0,1)                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note: . Configurations 0 -- 15 for normal subframes are available for
both frame structure type 1 and type 2. Configurations 16 -- 27 and
configurations for special subframes are available for frame structure
type 2 only.

Figure 6.10.5.2-1: Mapping of CSI reference signals (CSI configuration
0, normal cyclic prefix)

Figure 6.10.5.2-2: Mapping of CSI reference signals (CSI configuration
0, extended cyclic prefix)

#### 6.10.5.3 CSI reference signal subframe configuration

The subframe configuration period and the subframe offset for the
occurence of CSI reference signals are listed in Table 6.10.5.3-1. The
parameter can be configured separately for CSI reference signals for
which the UE shall assume non-zero and zero transmission power.
Subframes containing CSI reference signals that do not correspond to
either higher layer configured parameter *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* or
*csi-RS-ConfigZP-ApList* shall satisfy .

Table 6.10.5.3-1: CSI reference signal subframe configuration

+-----------------------+--------------------+------------------------+
| CSI-RS-SubframeConfig | CSI-RS periodicity | CSI-RS subframe offset |
|                       |                    |                        |
|                       | (subframes)        | (subframes)            |
+=======================+====================+========================+
| 0 -- 4                | 5                  |                        |
+-----------------------+--------------------+------------------------+
| 5 -- 14               | 10                 |                        |
+-----------------------+--------------------+------------------------+
| 15 -- 34              | 20                 |                        |
+-----------------------+--------------------+------------------------+
| 35 -- 74              | 40                 |                        |
+-----------------------+--------------------+------------------------+
| 75 -- 154             | 80                 |                        |
+-----------------------+--------------------+------------------------+

6.11 Synchronization signals
----------------------------

There are 504 unique physical-layer cell identities. The physical-layer
cell identities are grouped into 168 unique physical-layer cell-identity
groups, each group containing three unique identities. The grouping is
such that each physical-layer cell identity is part of one and only one
physical-layer cell-identity group. A physical-layer cell identity is
thus uniquely defined by a numberin the range of 0 to 167, representing
the physical-layer cell-identity group, and a number in the range of 0
to 2, representing the physical-layer identity within the physical-layer
cell-identity group.

### 6.11.1 Primary synchronization signal (PSS)

#### 6.11.1.1 Sequence generation

The sequence used for the primary synchronization signal is generated
from a frequency-domain Zadoff-Chu sequence according to

where the Zadoff-Chu root sequence index is given by Table 6.11.1.1-1.

Table 6.11.1.1-1: Root indices for the primary synchronization signal

      Root index
  --- ------------
  0   25
  1   29
  2   34

#### 6.11.1.2 Mapping to resource elements

The mapping of the sequence to resource elements depends on the frame
structure. The UE shall not assume that the primary synchronization
signal is transmitted on the same antenna port as any of the downlink
reference signals. The UE shall not assume that any transmission
instance of the primary synchronization signal is transmitted on the
same antenna port, or ports, used for any other transmission instance of
the primary synchronization signal.

The sequence shall be mapped to the resource elements according to

For frame structure type 1, the primary synchronization signal shall be
mapped to the last OFDM symbol in slots 0 and 10.

For frame structure type 2, the primary synchronization signal shall be
mapped to the third OFDM symbol in subframes 1 and 6. Resource elements
in the OFDM symbols used for transmission of the primary synchronization
signal where

are reserved and not used for transmission of the primary
synchronization signal.

For frame structure type 3, the primary synchronization signal shall be
mapped according to frame structure type 1 with the following
exceptions:

\- the primary synchronization signal shall be transmitted only if the
corresponding subframe is non-empty and at least 12 OFDM symbols are
transmitted,

\- a primary synchronization signal being part of a discovery signal
shall be transmitted in the last OFDM symbol of the first slot of a
discovery signal occasion.

For an MBMS-dedicated cell, the primary synchronization signal shall be
mapped according to frame structure type 1 with following exception:

\- the primary synchronization signal shall be transmitted in slot 0 in
subframes fulfilling only,

### 6.11.2 Secondary synchronization signal (SSS)

#### 6.11.2.1 Sequence generation

The sequence used for the second synchronization signal is an
interleaved concatenation of two length-31 binary sequences. The
concatenated sequence is scrambled with a scrambling sequence given by
the primary synchronization signal.

The combination of two length-31 sequences defining the secondary
synchronization signal differs between subframes according to

where . The indices and are derived from the physical-layer
cell-identity group according to

where the output of the above expression is listed in Table 6.11.2.1-1.

The two sequences and are defined as two different cyclic shifts of the
m-sequence according to

where, , is defined by

with initial conditions.

The two scrambling sequences and depend on the primary synchronization
signal and are defined by two different cyclic shifts of the m-sequence
according to

where is the physical-layer identity within the physical-layer cell
identity group and , , is defined by

with initial conditions .

The scrambling sequences and are defined by a cyclic shift of the
m-sequence according to

where and are obtained from Table 6.11.2.1-1 and , , is defined by

with initial conditions .

Table 6.11.2.1-1: Mapping between physical-layer cell-identity group and
the indices and

  ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----
  0    0    1    34   4    6    68    9    12   102   15   19   136   22   27
  1    1    2    35   5    7    69    10   13   103   16   20   137   23   28
  2    2    3    36   6    8    70    11   14   104   17   21   138   24   29
  3    3    4    37   7    9    71    12   15   105   18   22   139   25   30
  4    4    5    38   8    10   72    13   16   106   19   23   140   0    6
  5    5    6    39   9    11   73    14   17   107   20   24   141   1    7
  6    6    7    40   10   12   74    15   18   108   21   25   142   2    8
  7    7    8    41   11   13   75    16   19   109   22   26   143   3    9
  8    8    9    42   12   14   76    17   20   110   23   27   144   4    10
  9    9    10   43   13   15   77    18   21   111   24   28   145   5    11
  10   10   11   44   14   16   78    19   22   112   25   29   146   6    12
  11   11   12   45   15   17   79    20   23   113   26   30   147   7    13
  12   12   13   46   16   18   80    21   24   114   0    5    148   8    14
  13   13   14   47   17   19   81    22   25   115   1    6    149   9    15
  14   14   15   48   18   20   82    23   26   116   2    7    150   10   16
  15   15   16   49   19   21   83    24   27   117   3    8    151   11   17
  16   16   17   50   20   22   84    25   28   118   4    9    152   12   18
  17   17   18   51   21   23   85    26   29   119   5    10   153   13   19
  18   18   19   52   22   24   86    27   30   120   6    11   154   14   20
  19   19   20   53   23   25   87    0    4    121   7    12   155   15   21
  20   20   21   54   24   26   88    1    5    122   8    13   156   16   22
  21   21   22   55   25   27   89    2    6    123   9    14   157   17   23
  22   22   23   56   26   28   90    3    7    124   10   15   158   18   24
  23   23   24   57   27   29   91    4    8    125   11   16   159   19   25
  24   24   25   58   28   30   92    5    9    126   12   17   160   20   26
  25   25   26   59   0    3    93    6    10   127   13   18   161   21   27
  26   26   27   60   1    4    94    7    11   128   14   19   162   22   28
  27   27   28   61   2    5    95    8    12   129   15   20   163   23   29
  28   28   29   62   3    6    96    9    13   130   16   21   164   24   30
  29   29   30   63   4    7    97    10   14   131   17   22   165   0    7
  30   0    2    64   5    8    98    11   15   132   18   23   166   1    8
  31   1    3    65   6    9    99    12   16   133   19   24   167   2    9
  32   2    4    66   7    10   100   13   17   134   20   25   \-    \-   \-
  33   3    5    67   8    11   101   14   18   135   21   26   \-    \-   \-
  ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----

#### 6.11.2.2 Mapping to resource elements

The mapping of the sequence to resource elements depends on the frame
structure. In a subframe for frame structure type 1 and 3 and in a
half-frame for frame structure type 2, the same antenna port as for the
primary synchronization signal shall be used for the secondary
synchronization signal.

The sequence shall be mapped to resource elements according to

Resource elements where

are reserved and not used for transmission of the secondary
synchronization signal.

### 6.11.3 Resynchronization signal (RSS)

#### 6.11.3.1 Sequence generation

The resynchronization signal (RSS) is transmitted in $N_{\text{RSS}}$
subframes numbered $i = 0,1,\ldots,N_{\text{RSS}} - 1$, where the RSS
duration $N_{\text{RSS}}$ is configured by higher layers. The sequence
$d_{i}\left( n \right)$ used for the $i$th RSS subframe is generated
according to

$d_{i}\left( n \right) = \ \frac{1 - 2c(2n)}{\sqrt{2}} + j\ b(i)\frac{1 - 2c(2n + 1)}{\sqrt{2}},\ \ \ \ n = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,263$

where the pseudo-random sequence $c\left( n \right)$ is defined in
clause 7.2. The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised
each subframe with
$c_{\text{init}} = \ N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{cell}} + 2^{9}u$, where *u*
equals the value of the higher-layer parameter
*systemInfoUnchanged-BR-r15* as set in subframe $i = 0$. $b(i)$ is given
by Table 6.11.3.1-1.

Table 6.11.3.1-1: Definition of $\mathbf{b(i)}$.

  $$N_{\text{RSS}}$$   $$b\left( 0 \right),\ b\left( 1 \right),\ \ldots,\ b(N_{\text{RSS}} - 1)$$
  -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  8                    \[ 1, 1, -1, 1, -1, -1, 1, 1 \]
  16                   \[ *1, 1, -1, -1, 1, -1, 1, 1, 1, -1, -1, 1, 1, -1, 1, -1* \]
  32                   \[ *-1, -1, 1, 1, -1, 1, 1, -1, 1, -1, -1, -1, 1, 1, 1, -1, -1, -1, 1, -1, 1, -1, 1, 1, -1, 1, 1, 1, -1, -1, 1, -1* \]
  40                   \[ *1, -1, -1, 1, -1, -1, 1, 1, 1, -1, 1, -1, 1, 1, -1, -1, -1, 1, -1, -1, -1, 1, 1, 1, 1, -1, -1, -1, 1, -1, 1, 1, -1, -1, 1, -1, 1, -1, -1, 1* \]

#### 6.11.3.2 Mapping to resource elements

If only one CRS port is configured in a cell, the UE may assume that the
same antenna port is used for all subframes in an RSS transmission in
the cell. Otherwise, the UE may assume that the same antenna port is
used for RSS transmission in absolute subframes $2n$ and $2n + 1$ and
$n = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots$.

An RSS is transmitted in $N_{\text{RSS}}$ consecutive BL/CE DL
subframes, starting in the first BL/CE DL subframe in a radio frame
satisfying

$(n_{f}\ \text{mod}\ \frac{P_{\text{RSS}}}{10}) = \ O_{\text{RSS}}$

where the RSS periodicity $P_{\text{RSS}}$ and the RSS time offset
$O_{\text{RSS}}$ are configured by higher layers. In frequency domain,
the RSS frequency location is assigned to the 24 subcarriers in the
physical resource blocks numbers $n_{PRB,RSS}$ and $n_{PRB,RSS} + 1$, as
configured by higher layers.

In each subframe $i$ used for RSS transmission, the RSS sequence
$d_{i}\left( n \right)$ shall be mapped to resource elements $(k,l)$ in
sequence, starting with $d_{i}\left( 0 \right)$ in increasing order of
first the index $k = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,\ {2N}_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}} - 1$,
over the 24 assigned subcarriers and then the index
$l = 3,\ 4,\ \ldots,\ 2N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 1$.

A resource element $(k,l)$ overlapping with resource elements where
cell-specific reference signals according to clause 6.10 are transmitted
shall not be used for RSS transmission but is counted in the mapping
process. Additionally, an RSS subframe is dropped if any RSS PRB pair
overlaps with any PRB pair carrying PSS, SSS, PBCH or PDSCH associated
with SI-RNTI. In frame structure type 2, those special subframes,
indicated as BL/CE DL subframes by higher
layer* fdd-DownlinkOrTddSubframeBitmapBR*, are not counted in RSS
mapping and are not used for transmission of RSS.

6.11A Discovery signal
----------------------

A discovery signal occasion for a cell consists of a period with a
duration of

\- one to five consecutive subframes for frame structure type 1

\- two to five consecutive subframes for frame structure type 2

\- 12 OFDM symbols within one non-empty subframe for frame structure
type 3

where the UE in the downlink subframes may assume presence of a
discovery signal consisting of

\- cell-specific reference signals on antenna port 0 in all downlink
subframes and in DwPTS of all special subframes in the period for frame
structure type 1 and 2

\- cell specific reference signals on antenna port 0 when higher layer
parameters indicate only one configured antenna port for cell specific
reference signals for a serving cell using frame structure type 3

\- cell specific reference signals on antenna port 0 and antenna port 1
when higher layer parameters indicate at least two configured antenna
ports for cell specific reference signals for a serving cell using frame
structure type 3

\- cell specific reference signals on antenna port 0 and antenna port 1
when higher layer configured parameter *presenceAntennaPort1* is
signalled to be 1, for a neighbour cell when using frame structure type
3

\- primary synchronization signal in the first subframe of the period
for frame structure types 1 and 3 or the second subframe of the period
for frame structure type 2,

\- secondary synchronization signal in the first subframe of the period,
and

\- non-zero-power CSI reference signals in zero or more subframes in the
period. The configuration of non-zero-power CSI reference signals part
of the discovery signal is obtained as described in clause 6.10.5.2

For frame structures 1 and 2 the UE may assume a discovery signal
occasion once every *dmtc-Periodicity*.

For frame structure type 3, the UE may assume a discovery signal
occasion may occur in any subframe within the discovery signals
measurement timing configuration in clause 5.5.2.10 of \[9\].

For frame structure type 3, simultaneous transmission of a discovery
signal and PDSCH/PDCCH/EPDCCH may occur in subframes 0 and 5 only.

For frame structure type 3, the UE may assume that a discovery signal
occasion occurs in the first subframe containing a primary
synchronization signal, secondary synchronization signal and
cell-specific reference signals within the discovery measurement timing
configuration in clause 5.5.2.10 of \[9\].

6.11B MTC wake-up signal (MWUS)
-------------------------------

### 6.11B.1 Sequence generation

The MWUS sequence ![](media/image1143.wmf){width="0.3486111111111111in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"} in subframe
![](media/image1144.wmf){width="0.9305555555555556in"
height="0.18611111111111112in"}$x = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,\ M - 1$ is defined
by

$$w\left( m \right) = \ \theta_{n_{\text{f}},\ n_{\text{s}}}\left( m^{'} \right)e^{- j\frac{\text{πun}\left( n + 1 \right)}{131}}e^{j\frac{2\text{πgm}}{132}}$$

$$m = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,\ 131$$

$$m^{'} = m + 132x$$

$$n = m\ \text{mod}\ 132$$

$$\theta_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( m^{'} \right) = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
1\  & \text{if}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m^{'} \right) = 0\ \text{and}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m^{'} + 1 \right) = 0\  \\
 - 1\  & \text{if}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m^{'} \right) = 0\ \text{and}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m^{'} + 1 \right) = 1 \\
j\  & \text{if}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m^{'} \right) = 1\ \text{and}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m^{'} + 1 \right) = 0 \\
 - j\  & \text{if}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m^{'} \right) = 1\ \text{and}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m^{'} + 1 \right) = 1 \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $$

$$u = \left( N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{cell}}\ \text{mod}\ 126 \right) + 3$$

where ![](media/image1145.wmf){width="0.18611111111111112in"
height="0.15138888888888888in"} is the actual duration of MWUS as
defined in \[4\]. For a UE not configured with group MWUS, $g = 0$. For
a UE configured with group MWUS,
$g = 14\left( N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}} + 1 \right)$ for
$0 \leq N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}} \leq 7$, where
$N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}}$ is determined by the UE group to which
the UE is associated as determined by higher layers \[10\]. In a
resource that is not shared with non-group MWUS, the common MWUS
sequence shall be determined by $\ g = 126$. In a resource that is
shared with non-group MWUS, the common MWUS sequence is determined by
higher layers \[9\].

The scrambling sequence
$c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( i \right),\ i = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,\ 2 \bullet 132M - 1$
is given by clause 7.2, and shall be initialized at the start of the
MWUS with

$c_{\text{init\_WUS}} = {(N}_{\text{ID}}^{\text{cell}} + 1)\left( \left( {10n}_{\text{f\_start\_PO}} + \left\lfloor \frac{n_{\text{s\_start\_PO}}}{2} \right\rfloor \right)\text{mod\ }2048 + 1 \right)2^{9} + N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{cell}} + N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}} \bullet 2^{29}$

where $n_{\text{f\_start\_PO}}$ *is the first frame of the first PO to
which the MWUS is associated,* $n_{\text{s\_start\_PO}}$ is the first
slot of the first PO to which the MWUS is associated and
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ indicates the group MWUS resource to
which the UE is associated. For a UE not configured with group MWUS,
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}} = 0$, whereas for a UE configured with
group MWUS, $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ is determined by higher
layers \[10\].

### 6.11B.2 Mapping to resource elements

The same antenna port shall be used for all symbols of the MWUS within a
subframe. The UE shall not assume that the MWUS is transmitted on the
same antenna port as any of the downlink reference signals or
synchronization signals. If only one CRS port is configured by the eNB,
the UE may assume the transmission of all MWUS subframes is using the
same antenna port; otherwise, the UE may assume the same antenna port is
used for MWUS transmission in downlink subframes *w*0 + 2*n* and *w*0 +
2*n* + 1, where *w*0 is the first downlink subframe of the MWUS
transmission as specified in \[4\], and *n*=0, 1,....

The MWUS bandwidth is 2 consecutive PRBs, the frequency location of the
lowermost PRB with $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}} = 0$ is signaled by
higher layers. For both PRB pairs in the frequency domain, for which
MWUS is defined, the MWUS sequence $w\left( m \right)$ shall be mapped
to resource elements $(k,l)$ in sequence, starting with $w(0)$ in
increasing order of first the index
$k = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,\ N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}} - 1$, over the 12
assigned subcarriers and then the index
$l = 3,\ 4,\ \ldots,\ 2N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 1$ in each subframe
in which MWUS is transmitted.

The MWUS sequence is mapped to the set of subframes in the actual MWUS
duration as defined in \[4\], where in a subframe in which an MWUS PRB
pair overlaps with any PRB pair carrying PSS, SSS, RSS, PBCH or PDSCH
associated with SI-RNTI is transmitted, the subframe is counted in the
MWUS mapping but not used for transmission of MWUS. In frame structure
type 2, those special subframes, indicated as BL/CE DL subframes by
higher layer* fdd-DownlinkOrTddSubframeBitmapBR*, are not counted in
MWUS mapping and are not used for transmission of MWUS.

A resource element $(k,l)$ overlapping with resource elements where
cell-specific reference signals according to clause 6.10 are transmitted
shall not be used for MWUS transmission but is counted in the mapping
process.

6.12 OFDM baseband signal generation
------------------------------------

The time-continuous signal on antenna port in OFDM symbol in a downlink
slot is defined by

for where and. The variable equals 2048 for subcarrier spacing, 4096 for
subcarrier spacing, 12288 for $\Delta f = 2.5\text{\ kHz}$, 24576 for
subcarrier spacing , and 82944 for
$\Delta f = \frac{1}{\left( 82944T_{\text{s}} \right)} \approx 0.37\ \text{kHz}$.

For frame structure type 3, if PDCCH is to be transmitted in a subframe
starting with OFDM symbol ![](media/image1155.wmf){width="0.41875in"
height="0.2326388888888889in"} based on the received uplink control
information that indicates channel occupancy time sharing \'1\' as
specified in \[11\], OFDM symbol
![](media/image1156.wmf){width="0.8020833333333334in"
height="0.2326388888888889in"} in the previous subframe may be
transmitted, given by

![](media/image1157.wmf){width="3.104861111111111in"
height="0.4534722222222222in"}

The OFDM symbols in a slot shall be transmitted in increasing order of ,
starting with , where OFDM symbol starts at time within the slot. In
case the first OFDM symbol(s) in a slot use normal cyclic prefix and the
remaining OFDM symbols use extended cyclic prefix, the starting position
the OFDM symbols with extended cyclic prefix shall be identical to those
in a slot where all OFDM symbols use extended cyclic prefix. Thus there
will be a part of the time slot between the two cyclic prefix regions
where the transmitted signal is not specified. For , there is one OFDM
symbol per slot and one slot per subframe. For
$\Delta f \approx 0.37\text{\ kHz}$, there is one OFDM symbol per slot
and one slot per 3ms.

Table 6.12-1 lists the value of that shall be used. Note that different
OFDM symbols within a slot in some cases have different cyclic prefix
lengths.

In case NB-IoT is supported, the OFDM baseband signal generation is
defined in clause 10.2.8.

Table 6.12-1: OFDM parameters

  Configuration            Cyclic prefix length                    
  ------------------------ --------------------------------------- ------------------
  Normal cyclic prefix                                             
  Extended cyclic prefix                                           
                                                                   
                           $$\Delta f = 2.5\text{\ kHz}$$          3072 for $l = 0$
                                                                   
                           $$\Delta f \approx 0.37\text{\ kHz}$$   9216 for $l = 0$

6.13 Modulation and upconversion
--------------------------------

Modulation and upconversion to the carrier frequency of the
complex-valued OFDM baseband signal for each antenna port is shown in
Figure 6.13-1. The filtering required prior to transmission is defined
by the requirements in 3GPP TS 36.104 \[6\].

Figure 6.13-1: Downlink modulation

 7 Generic functions
===================

7.1 Modulation mapper
---------------------

The modulation mapper takes binary digits, 0 or 1, as input and produces
complex-valued modulation symbols, *x* as output.

### 7.1.1 BPSK

In case of BPSK modulation, a single bit, , is mapped to a
complex-valued modulation symbol *x*=*I*+j*Q* according to Table
7.1.1-1.

Table 7.1.1-1: BPSK modulation mapping

      *I*   *Q*
  --- ----- -----
  0         
  1         

### 7.1.2 QPSK

In case of QPSK modulation, pairs of bits, , are mapped to
complex-valued modulation symbols *x* according to Table 7.1.2-1 where
unless \"MUST interference presence and power ratio (*MUSTIdx*)\" is
signalled in the associated DCI and is not \'00\' in which case where
and are determined from *MUSTIdx* using Table 7.1.2-2, and each is
selected by eNB independently of .

Table 7.1.2-1: QPSK modulation mapping

       *I*   *Q*
  ---- ----- -----
  00         
  01         
  10         
  11         

Table 7.1.2-2: Values for and for QPSK

  *MUSTIdx*      
  ----------- -- --
  01             
  10             
  11             

### 7.1.3 16QAM

In case of 16QAM modulation, quadruplets of bits, , are mapped to
complex-valued modulation symbols *x* according to Table 7.1.3-1 where
unless \"MUST interference presence and power ratio (*MUSTIdx*)\" is
signalled in the associated DCI and is not \'00\' in which case where
and are determined from *MUSTIdx* using Table 7.1.3-2, and each is
selected by eNB independently of .

Table 7.1.3-1: 16QAM modulation mapping

         *I*   *Q*
  ------ ----- -----
  0000         
  0001         
  0010         
  0011         
  0100         
  0101         
  0110         
  0111         
  1000         
  1001         
  1010         
  1011         
  1100         
  1101         
  1110         
  1111         

Table 7.1.3-2: Values for and for 16QAM

  *MUSTIdx*      
  ----------- -- --
  01             
  10             
  11             

### 7.1.4 64QAM

In case of 64QAM modulation, hextuplets of bits, , are mapped to
complex-valued modulation symbols *x* according to Table 7.1.4-1 where
unless \"MUST interference presence and power ratio (*MUSTIdx*)\" is
signalled in the associated DCI and is not \'00\' in which case where
and are determined from *MUSTIdx* using Table 7.1.4-2, and each is
selected by eNB independently of .

Table 7.1.4-1: 64QAM modulation mapping

           *I*   *Q*            *I*   *Q*
  -------- ----- ----- -------- ----- -----
  000000               100000         
  000001               100001         
  000010               100010         
  000011               100011         
  000100               100100         
  000101               100101         
  000110               100110         
  000111               100111         
  001000               101000         
  001001               101001         
  001010               101010         
  001011               101011         
  001100               101100         
  001101               101101         
  001110               101110         
  001111               101111         
  010000               110000         
  010001               110001         
  010010               110010         
  010011               110011         
  010100               110100         
  010101               110101         
  010110               110110         
  010111               110111         
  011000               111000         
  011001               111001         
  011010               111010         
  011011               111011         
  011100               111100         
  011101               111101         
  011110               111110         
  011111               111111         

Table 7.1.4-2: Values for and for 64QAM

  *MUSTIdx*      
  ----------- -- --
  01             
  10             
  11             

### 7.1.5 256QAM

In case of 256QAM modulation, octuplets of bits, , are mapped to
complex-valued modulation symbols according to Table 7.1.5-1.

Table 7.1.5-1: 256QAM modulation mapping

             *I*   *Q*              *I*   *Q*              *I*   *Q*              *I*   *Q*
  ---------- ----- ----- ---------- ----- ----- ---------- ----- ----- ---------- ----- -----
  00000000   5     5     01000000   5     -5    10000000   -5    5     11000000   -5    -5
  00000001   5     7     01000001   5     -7    10000001   -5    7     11000001   -5    -7
  00000010   7     5     01000010   7     -5    10000010   -7    5     11000010   -7    -5
  00000011   7     7     01000011   7     -7    10000011   -7    7     11000011   -7    -7
  00000100   5     3     01000100   5     -3    10000100   -5    3     11000100   -5    -3
  00000101   5     1     01000101   5     -1    10000101   -5    1     11000101   -5    -1
  00000110   7     3     01000110   7     -3    10000110   -7    3     11000110   -7    -3
  00000111   7     1     01000111   7     -1    10000111   -7    1     11000111   -7    -1
  00001000   3     5     01001000   3     -5    10001000   -3    5     11001000   -3    -5
  00001001   3     7     01001001   3     -7    10001001   -3    7     11001001   -3    -7
  00001010   1     5     01001010   1     -5    10001010   -1    5     11001010   -1    -5
  00001011   1     7     01001011   1     -7    10001011   -1    7     11001011   -1    -7
  00001100   3     3     01001100   3     -3    10001100   -3    3     11001100   -3    -3
  00001101   3     1     01001101   3     -1    10001101   -3    1     11001101   -3    -1
  00001110   1     3     01001110   1     -3    10001110   -1    3     11001110   -1    -3
  00001111   1     1     01001111   1     -1    10001111   -1    1     11001111   -1    -1
  00010000   5     11    01010000   5     -11   10010000   -5    11    11010000   -5    -11
  00010001   5     9     01010001   5     -9    10010001   -5    9     11010001   -5    -9
  00010010   7     11    01010010   7     -11   10010010   -7    11    11010010   -7    -11
  00010011   7     9     01010011   7     -9    10010011   -7    9     11010011   -7    -9
  00010100   5     13    01010100   5     -13   10010100   -5    13    11010100   -5    -13
  00010101   5     15    01010101   5     -15   10010101   -5    15    11010101   -5    -15
  00010110   7     13    01010110   7     -13   10010110   -7    13    11010110   -7    -13
  00010111   7     15    01010111   7     -15   10010111   -7    15    11010111   -7    -15
  00011000   3     11    01011000   3     -11   10011000   -3    11    11011000   -3    -11
  00011001   3     9     01011001   3     -9    10011001   -3    9     11011001   -3    -9
  00011010   1     11    01011010   1     -11   10011010   -1    11    11011010   -1    -11
  00011011   1     9     01011011   1     -9    10011011   -1    9     11011011   -1    -9
  00011100   3     13    01011100   3     -13   10011100   -3    13    11011100   -3    -13
  00011101   3     15    01011101   3     -15   10011101   -3    15    11011101   -3    -15
  00011110   1     13    01011110   1     -13   10011110   -1    13    11011110   -1    -13
  00011111   1     15    01011111   1     -15   10011111   -1    15    11011111   -1    -15
  00100000   11    5     01100000   11    -5    10100000   -11   5     11100000   -11   -5
  00100001   11    7     01100001   11    -7    10100001   -11   7     11100001   -11   -7
  00100010   9     5     01100010   9     -5    10100010   -9    5     11100010   -9    -5
  00100011   9     7     01100011   9     -7    10100011   -9    7     11100011   -9    -7
  00100100   11    3     01100100   11    -3    10100100   -11   3     11100100   -11   -3
  00100101   11    1     01100101   11    -1    10100101   -11   1     11100101   -11   -1
  00100110   9     3     01100110   9     -3    10100110   -9    3     11100110   -9    -3
  00100111   9     1     01100111   9     -1    10100111   -9    1     11100111   -9    -1
  00101000   13    5     01101000   13    -5    10101000   -13   5     11101000   -13   -5
  00101001   13    7     01101001   13    -7    10101001   -13   7     11101001   -13   -7
  00101010   15    5     01101010   15    -5    10101010   -15   5     11101010   -15   -5
  00101011   15    7     01101011   15    -7    10101011   -15   7     11101011   -15   -7
  00101100   13    3     01101100   13    -3    10101100   -13   3     11101100   -13   -3
  00101101   13    1     01101101   13    -1    10101101   -13   1     11101101   -13   -1
  00101110   15    3     01101110   15    -3    10101110   -15   3     11101110   -15   -3
  00101111   15    1     01101111   15    -1    10101111   -15   1     11101111   -15   -1
  00110000   11    11    01110000   11    -11   10110000   -11   11    11110000   -11   -11
  00110001   11    9     01110001   11    -9    10110001   -11   9     11110001   -11   -9
  00110010   9     11    01110010   9     -11   10110010   -9    11    11110010   -9    -11
  00110011   9     9     01110011   9     -9    10110011   -9    9     11110011   -9    -9
  00110100   11    13    01110100   11    -13   10110100   -11   13    11110100   -11   -13
  00110101   11    15    01110101   11    -15   10110101   -11   15    11110101   -11   -15
  00110110   9     13    01110110   9     -13   10110110   -9    13    11110110   -9    -13
  00110111   9     15    01110111   9     -15   10110111   -9    15    11110111   -9    -15
  00111000   13    11    01111000   13    -11   10111000   -13   11    11111000   -13   -11
  00111001   13    9     01111001   13    -9    10111001   -13   9     11111001   -13   -9
  00111010   15    11    01111010   15    -11   10111010   -15   11    11111010   -15   -11
  00111011   15    9     01111011   15    -9    10111011   -15   9     11111011   -15   -9
  00111100   13    13    01111100   13    -13   10111100   -13   13    11111100   -13   -13
  00111101   13    15    01111101   13    -15   10111101   -13   15    11111101   -13   -15
  00111110   15    13    01111110   15    -13   10111110   -15   13    11111110   -15   -13
  00111111   15    15    01111111   15    -15   10111111   -15   15    11111111   -15   -15

### 7.1.6 1024QAM

In case of 1024QAM modulation, 10-tuplets of bits,
![](media/image1233.wmf){width="4.232638888888889in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"}, are mapped to complex-valued modulation
symbols ![](media/image1234.wmf){width="0.13958333333333334in"
height="0.13958333333333334in"} according to

![](media/image1235.wmf){width="5.569444444444445in"
height="0.7326388888888888in"}

7.2 Pseudo-random sequence generation
-------------------------------------

Pseudo-random sequences are defined by a length-31 Gold sequence. The
output sequence of length, where, is defined by

where and the first m-sequence shall be initialized with. The
initialization of the second m-sequence is denoted by with the value
depending on the application of the sequence.

8 Timing
========

8.1 Uplink-downlink frame timing
--------------------------------

Transmission of the uplink radio frame number from the UE shall start
seconds before the start of the corresponding downlink radio frame at
the UE.

Figure 8.1-1: Uplink-downlink timing relation

Except for the cases mentioned in Table 8.1-1, Table 8.1-2 and Table
8.1-3, the range of is: .

For frame structure type 1 and for frame structure type 2 unless stated
otherwise in \[4\]. Note that not all slots in a radio frame may be
transmitted. One example hereof is TDD, where only a subset of the slots
in a radio frame is transmitted.

is defined in different ranges depending on the UE configuration
according to Table 8.1-1, Table 8.1-2 and Table 8.1-3. In case of
subslot based transmission (Table 8.1-2 and Table 8.1-3), the UE is
configured by higher layer signalling a processing timeline and an
associated range of timing advance.

Table 8.1-1: Ranges of for a UE configured with SCG, short processing
time or slot-based transmission in both DL and UL

  Range of   Condition
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             if the UE is configured with a SCG
             if the UE is configured with *shortProcessingTime* (see 3GPP TS 36.331 \[9\])
             if the UE is configured with *dl-STTI-Length* and *ul-STTI-Length* (see 3GPP TS 36.331 \[9\]) set to \'slot\' for the serving cell

Table 8.1-2: Ranges of for a UE configured with subslot-based
transmission in both DL and UL (*dl-STTI-Length* and *ul-STTI-Length*,
see 3GPP TS 36.331 \[9\]. set to \'subslot\')

  Range of                           proc-Timeline
  ---------------------------------- ---------------
                                     nplus4set1
                                     nplus6set1
                                     nplus6set2
                                     nplus8set2
  NOTE 1: See 3GPP TS 36.331 \[9\]   

Table 8.1-3: Ranges of for a UE configured with subslot-based
transmission in DL and slot-based transmission in UL (*dl-STTI-Length*
and *ul-STTI-Length*, see 3GPP TS 36.331 \[9\], set to \'subslot\' and
\'slot\', respectively)

  Range of                           proc-Timeline
  ---------------------------------- ---------------
                                     nplus4set1
                                     nplus6set1
                                     nplus6set2
                                     nplus8set2
  NOTE 1: See 3GPP TS 36.331 \[9\]   

In all other cases the range of is: .
