9 Sidelink
==========

9.1 Overview
------------

A sidelink is used for ProSe direct communication and ProSe direct
discovery between UEs.

### 9.1.1 Physical channels

A sidelink physical channel corresponds to a set of resource elements
carrying information originating from higher layers and is the interface
defined between 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\] and the present document
3GPP TS 36.211. The following sidelink physical channels are defined:

\- Physical Sidelink Shared Channel, PSSCH

\- Physical Sidelink Control Channel, PSCCH

\- Physical Sidelink Discovery Channel, PSDCH

\- Physical Sidelink Broadcast Channel, PSBCH

Generation of the baseband signal representing the different physical
sidelink channels is illustrated in Figrue 5.3-1.

### 9.1.2 Physical signals

A sidelink physical signal is used by the physical layer but does not
carry information originating from higher layers. The following sidelink
physical signals are defined:

\- Demodulation reference signal

\- Synchronization signal

### 9.1.3 Handling of simultaneous sidelink and uplink/downlink transmissions

For a given frequency, on an uplink subframe included in
*discTxGapConfig* \[9\], a UE shall not transmit an uplink transmission
that is not a PRACH transmission and that is partly or completely
overlapping in time with a PSDCH transmission or a SLSS transmission for
PSDCH by the same UE. Else, for a given carrier frequency and sidelink
transmission mode 1 or 2 or sidelink discovery, a UE shall not transmit
a sidelink signal or channel overlapping partly or completely in time
with an uplink transmission from the same UE.

For a given carrier frequency, no PSDCH, PSCCH, or PSSCH transmission
shall occur from a UE in a sidelink subframe configured for
synchronization purposes by the higher-layer parameters

\- *syncOffsetIndicator1* or *syncOffsetIndicator2* in \[9\] if the UE
has no serving cell fulfilling the S criterion according to \[10, clause
5.2.3.2\], or

*- syncOffsetIndicator* in *commSyncConfig* or *discSyncConfig* which
includes *txParameters* in \[9\] if the UE has a serving cell fulfilling
the S criterion according to \[10, clause 5.2.3.2\]. The UE may assume
the same configuration in *commSyncConfig* and *discSyncConfig*.

For a given carrier frequency, with the exception of PSSCH transmissions
with transmission mode 1 and same sidelink cyclic prefix as PUSCH, no
sidelink transmissions shall occur in sidelink subframe from a UE if
uplink SRS is transmitted from the same UE in uplink subframe .

A UE with limited transmission capabilities, on an uplink subframe
included in *discTxGapConfig* \[9\], shall first prioritize a PSDCH
transmission or a SLSS transmission for PSDCH over an uplink
transmission that is not a PRACH transmission. Else, a UE with limited
transmission capabilities shall at a given time first prioritize uplink
transmissions, followed by sidelink transmission mode 1 or 2 or sidelink
discovery.

A UE with limited transmission capabilities shall at a given time
prioritize sidelink communication transmissions (PSSS, SSSS, PSBCH,
PSSCH, PSCCH) over sidelink discovery transmissions (PSDCH).

A UE with limited reception capabilities, on a downlink subframe
included in *discRxGapConfig* \[9\], shall first prioritize reception of
PSDCH or 11reception of SLSS for PSDCH over downlink reception. Else, a
UE with limited reception capabilities shall at a given time first
prioritize downlink reception over sidelink reception.

A UE with limited reception capabilities shall at a given time first
prioritize sidelink communication reception, sidelink discovery
reception on carriers configured by the eNodeB, and last sidelink
discovery reception on carriers not configured by the eNodeB.

9.2 Slot structure and physical resources
-----------------------------------------

Sidelink transmissions are organized into radio frames with a duration
of , each consisting of 20 slots of duration . A sidelink subframe
consists of two consecutive slots, starting with an even-numbered slot.

### 9.2.1 Resource grid

A transmitted physical channel or signal in a slot is described by a
resource grid of subcarriers and SC-FDMA symbols. The sidelink bandwidth
if the S criterion according to \[10, clause 5.2.3.2\] is fulfilled for
a serving cell having the same uplink carrier frequency as the sidelink,
otherwise a preconfigured value is used \[9\].

The sidelink cyclic prefix is configured independently for type 1
discovery, type 2B discovery, sidelink transmission mode 1, sidelink
transmission mode 2, control signalling, and PSBCH and synchronization
signals. Configuration is per resource pool for discovery, sidelink
transmission mode 2, and control signalling. The PSBCH and
synchronization signals always use the same cyclic prefix.

Only normal cyclic prefix is supported for PSSCH, PSCCH, PSBCH, and
synchronization signals for a sidelink configured with transmission mode
3 or 4.

The resource grid is illustrated in Figure 5.2.1-1.

An antenna port is defined such that the channel over which a symbol on
the antenna port is conveyed can be inferred from the channel over which
another symbol on the same antenna port is conveyed. There is one
resource grid per antenna port. The antenna ports used for transmission
of a physical channel or signal are shown in Table 9.2.1-1.

Table 9.2.1-1: Antenna ports used for different physical channels and
signals

  Physical channel or signal   Antenna port number
  ---------------------------- ---------------------
  PSSCH                        1000
  PSCCH                        1000
  PSDCH                        1000
  PSBCH                        1010
  Synchronization signals      1020

### 9.2.2 Resource elements

Each element in the resource grid is called a resource element and is
uniquely defined by the index pair in a slot where and are the indices
in the frequency and time domains, respectively. Resource element on
antenna port corresponds to the complex value *.* *When there is no risk
for confusion, or no particular antenna port is specified, the index*
may be dropped*.*

Quantities corresponding to resource elements not used for transmission
of a physical channel or a physical signal in a slot shall be set to
zero.

### 9.2.3 Resource blocks

A physical resource block is defined as consecutive SC-FDMA symbols in
the time domain and consecutive subcarriers in the frequency domain,
where and are given by Table 9.2.3-1. A physical resource block in the
sidelink thus consists of resource elements, corresponding to one slot
in the time domain and 180 kHz in the frequency domain.

Table 9.2.3-1: Resource block parameters

  Configuration                 
  ------------------------ ---- ---
  Normal cyclic prefix     12   7
  Extended cyclic prefix   12   6

The relation between the physical resource block number in the frequency
domain and resource elements in a slot is given by

### 9.2.4 Resource pool

The subframe pools and resource block pools are defined in \[4\].

For PSSCH, the number of the current slot in the subframe pool , where
is the number of the current slot within the current sidelink subframe
with equal to the subscript of , defined in clauses 14.1.4 and 14.2.3 of
\[4\] for sidelink transmission modes 1 and 2, respectively; and where
![](media/image26.wmf){width="0.4534722222222222in"
height="0.20902777777777778in"} is the number of the current slot within
the current sidelink subframe with equal to the subscript of , defined
in clauses 14.1.1.5 of \[4\] for sidelink transmission modes 3 and 4.

### 9.2.5 Guard period

The last SC-FDMA symbol in a sidelink subframe serves as a guard period
and shall not be used for sidelink transmission.

9.3 Physical Sidelink Shared Channel
------------------------------------

### 9.3.1 Scrambling

The block of bits , where is the number of bits transmitted on the
physical sidelink shared channel in one subframe shall be scrambled
according to clause 5.3.1.

The scrambling sequence generator shall be initialised with at the start
of every PSSCH subframe where

\- for sidelink transmission modes 1 and 2, is destination identity
obtained from the sidelink control channel, and

\- for sidelink transmission modes 3 and 4, with and given by clause
5.1.1 in \[3\] equals the decimal representation of CRC on the PSCCH
transmitted in the same subframe as the PSSCH.

### 9.3.2 Modulation

Modulation shall be done according to clause 5.3.2. Table 9.3.2-1
specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the physical sidelink
shared channel.

Table 9.3.2-1: PSSCH modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  PSSCH              QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM

### 9.3.3 Layer mapping

Layer mapping shall be done according to clause 5.3.2A assuming a single
antenna port, .

### 9.3.4 Transform precoding

Transform precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3 with and
replaced by and , respectively.

### 9.3.5 Precoding

Precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3A assuming a single
antenna port, .

### 9.3.6 Mapping to physical resources

The block of complex-valued symbols shall be multiplied with the
amplitude scaling factor in order to conform to the transmit power
specified in \[4\], and mapped in sequence starting with to physical
resource blocks on antenna port and assigned for transmission of PSSCH.
The mapping to resource elements corresponding to the physical resource
blocks assigned for transmission and not used for transmission of
reference signals shall be in increasing order of first the index , then
the index, starting with the first slot in the subframe. If Transmission
Format of SCI format 1 is set to 1, the resource elements in the last
SC-FDMA symbol within a subframe shall not considered in the mapping
process. Otherwise, the resource elements in the last SC-FDMA symbol
within a subframe shall be counted in the mapping process but not
transmitted.

If sidelink frequency hopping is disabled the set of physical resource
blocks to be used for transmission is given by where is obtained from
\[4, clause 14.1.1.2.1\].

If sidelink frequency hopping with type 1 hopping is enabled, the set of
physical resource blocks to be used for transmission is given by \[4\].

If sidelink frequency hopping with predefined hopping pattern is
enabled, the set of physical resource blocks to be used for transmission
is given by the sidelink control information together with a predefined
pattern in clause 5.3.4 with the following exceptions:

\- only inter-subframe hopping shall be used

\- the number of subbands is given by higher layers as described in \[4,
clause 14.1.1.2\]

\- the quantity is given by higher layers as described in \[4, clause
14.1.1.2\]

\- the quantity where is given by clause 9.2.4

\- the quantity

\- the pseudo-random sequence generator is initialized at the start of
each slot fulfilling with the initialization value given by
*hoppingParameter-r12* in \[9\]

\- the quantity shall be replaced by , given by \[4, clause 14.1.1.2.1\]

\- for sidelink transmission mode 1

\-

\- for sidelink transmission mode 2

\- where is given by \[4, clause 14.1.3\]

\- the quantity shall be replaced by , given by \[4, clause 14.1.1.4\]

\- the physical resource block to use for transmission with given by
\[4, clause 14.1.3\]

9.4 Physical Sidelink Control Channel
-------------------------------------

### 9.4.1 Scrambling

The block of bits , where is the number of bits transmitted on the
physical sidelink control channel in one subframe shall be scrambled
according to clause 5.3.1.

The scrambling sequence generator shall be initialised with at the start
of every PSCCH subframe.

### 9.4.2 Modulation

Modulation shall be done according to clause 5.3.2. Table 9.4.2-1
specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the physical sidelink
control channel.

Table 9.4.2-1: PSCCH modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  PSCCH              QPSK

### 9.4.3 Layer mapping

Layer mapping shall be done according to clause 5.3.2A assuming a single
antenna port, .

### 9.4.4 Transform precoding

Transform precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3 with and
replaced by and , respectively.

### 9.4.5 Precoding

Precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3A assuming a single
antenna port, .

### 9.4.6 Mapping to physical resources

The block of complex-valued symbols shall be multiplied with the
amplitude scaling factor in order to conform to the transmit power
specified in \[4\], and mapped in sequence starting with to physical
resource blocks on antenna port and assigned for transmission of PSCCH.
The mapping to resource elements corresponding to the physical resource
blocks assigned for transmission and not used for transmission of
reference signals shall be in increasing order of first the index , then
the index, starting with the first slot in the subframe. Resource
elements in the last SC-FDMA symbol within a subframe shall be counted
in the mapping process but not transmitted.

9.5 Physical Sidelink Discovery Channel
---------------------------------------

### 9.5.1 Scrambling

The block of bits , where is the number of bits transmitted on the
physical sidelink discovery channel in one subframe shall be scrambled
according to clause 5.3.1.

The scrambling sequence generator shall be initialised with at the start
of each PSDCH subframe.

### 9.5.2 Modulation

Modulation shall be done according to clause 5.3.2. Table 9.5.2-1
specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the physical sidelink
discovery channel.

Table 9.5.2-1: Sidelink modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  PSDCH              QPSK

### 9.5.3 Layer mapping

Layer mapping shall be done according to clause 5.3.2A assuming a single
antenna port, .

### 9.5.4 Transform precoding

Transform precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3 with and
replaced by and , respectively.

### 9.5.5 Precoding

Precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3A assuming a single
antenna port, .

### 9.5.6 Mapping to physical resources

The block of complex-valued symbols shall be multiplied with the
amplitude scaling factor in order to conform to the transmit power
specified in \[4\], and mapped in sequence starting with to physical
resource blocks on antenna port and assigned for transmission of PSDCH.
The mapping to resource elements corresponding to the physical resource
blocks assigned for transmission and not used for transmission of
reference signals shall be in increasing order of first the index , then
the index, starting with the first slot in the subframe. Resource
elements in the last SC-FDMA symbol within a subframe shall be counted
in the mapping process but not transmitted.

The set of physical resource blocks that shall be used are given by \[4,
clause 14.3.1\].

9.6 Physical Sidelink Broadcast Channel
---------------------------------------

### 9.6.1 Scrambling

The block of bits , where is the number of bits transmitted on the
physical sidelink broadcast channel in one subframe, shall be scrambled
according to clause 5.3.1. The scrambling sequence generator shall be
initialised at the start of every PSBCH subframe with .

### 9.6.2 Modulation

Modulation shall be done according to clause 5.3.2. Table 9.6.2-1
specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the physical sidelink
broadcast channel.

Table 9.6.2-1: PSBCH modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  PSBCH              QPSK

### 9.6.3 Layer mapping

Layer mapping shal be done according to clause 5.3.2A assuming a single
antenna port, .

### 9.6.4 Transform precoding

Transform precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3 with and
replaced by and , respectively.

### 9.6.5 Precoding

Precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3A assuming a single
antenna port, .

### 9.6.6 Mapping to physical resources

The block of complex-valued symbols shall be multiplied with the
amplitude scaling factor in order to conform to the transmit power
specified in \[4\], and mapped in sequence starting with to physical
resource blocks on antenna port . The PSBCH shall use the same set of
resource blocks as the synchronization signal. The mapping to resource
elements corresponding to the physical resource blocks used for the
PSBCH and not used for transmission of reference signals or
synchronization signals shall be in increasing order of first the index
, then the index , starting with the first slot in the subframe. The
resource-element index given by

Resource elements in the last SC-FDMA symbol within a subframe should be
counted in the mapping process but not transmitted.

9.7 Sidelink Synchronization Signals
------------------------------------

A physical-layer sidelink synchronization identity is represented by ,
divided into two sets id\_net and id\_oon consisting of identities and ,
respectively.

### 9.7.1 Primary sidelink synchronization signal

The primary sidelink synchronization signal is transmitted in two
adjacent SC-FDMA symbols in the same subframe.

#### 9.7.1.1 Sequence generation

Each of the two sequences used for the primary sidelink synchronization
signal in the two SC-FDMA symbols is given by clause 6.11.1.1 with root
index if and otherwise.

#### 9.7.1.2 Mapping to resource elements

The sequence shall be multiplied with the amplitude scaling factor and
mapped to resource elements on antenna port 1020 in the first slot in
the subframe according to

### 9.7.2 Secondary sidelink synchronization signal

The secondary sidelink synchronization signal is transmitted in two
adjacent SC-FDMA symbols in the same subframe.

#### 9.7.2.1 Sequence generation

Each of the two sequences used for the secondary sidelink
synchronization signal is given by clause 6.11.2.1 assuming

\- subframe 0 with and for transmission modes 1 and 2, and

\- subframe 5 for transmission modes 3 and 4.

#### 9.7.2.2 Mapping to resource elements

The sequence shall be multiplied with the amplitude scaling factor in
order to conform to the transmit power specified in clause 14.4 in 3GPP
TS 36.213 \[4\] and mapped to resource elements on antenna port 1020 in
the second slot in the subframe according to

9.8 Demodulation reference signals
----------------------------------

Demodulation reference signals associated with PSSCH, PSCCH, PSDCH, and
PSBCH transmission shall be transmitted according to PUSCH in clause
5.5.2.1 with the following exceptions:

\- The parameters in Tables 9.8-1, 9.8-2, and 9.8-3 shall be used.

\- The term PUSCH shall be replaced by PSSCH, PSCCH, PSDCH or PSBCH,
depending on the physical channel to which the reference signal is
associated.

\- Antenna ports are given by Table 9.2-1.

\- The set of physical resource blocks used in the mapping process shall
be identical to the corresponding PSSCH/PSCCH/PSDCH/PSBCH transmission.

\- The index in the mapping process in clause 5.5.2.1.2 corresponding to
the case where higher-layer parameter *ul-DMRS-IFDMA* is not set shall
be identical to that for the corresponding PSSCH/PSCCH/PSDCH/PSBCH
transmission.

\- For sidelink transmission modes 3 and 4 on the PSSCH and PSCCH, the
mapping shall use and for the first slot in the subframe and and for the
second slot in the subframe.

\- For sidelink transmission modes 3 and 4 on the PSBCH, the mapping
shall use and for the first slot in the subframe and for the second slot
in the subframe.

\- For sidelink transmission modes 1 and 2, the pseudo-random sequence
generator in clause 5.5.1.3 shall be initialized at the start of each
slot fulfilling . For sidelink transmission modes 3 and 4 the
pseudo-random sequence generator in clause 5.5.1.3 shall be initialized
at the start of each slot fulfilling .

\- For sidelink transmission modes 3 and 4 on the PSCCH, the cyclic
shift to be applied for all DM-RS in a subframe shall be chosen
according to clause 14.2.1 of \[4\].

\- For sidelink transmission modes 1and 2 and sidelink discovery, the
quantity in clause 5.5.2.1.1 takes the values and for sidelink
transmission modes 3and 4, the quantity in clause 5.5.2.1.1 takes the
values for PSSCH and for PSBCH.

\- For sidelink transmission modes 3 and 4, the quantity equals the
decimal representation of CRC on the PSCCH transmitted in the same
subframe as the PSSCH according to with and given by clause 5.1.1 in
\[3\].

Table 9.8-1: Reference signal parameters for PSSCH.

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter in   | PSSCH          |                |                |
| clause 5.5.2.1 |                |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | Sidelink       | Sidelink       |                |
|                | transmission   | transmission\  |                |
|                | modes 1 and 2  | modes 3 and 4  |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Group hopping  |                | enabled        | enabled        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                |                | first DM-RS    |
|                |                |                | symbol in a    |
|                |                |                | slot           |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | second DM-RS   |
|                |                |                | symbol in a    |
|                |                |                | slot           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Sequence       |                | disabled       | disabled       |
| hopping        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Cyclic shift   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Orthogonal     |                |                |                |
| sequence       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Reference      |                |                |                |
| signal length  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Number of      |                | 1              | 1              |
| layers         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Number of      |                | 1              | 1              |
| antenna ports  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 9.8-2: Reference signal parameters for PSCCH.

  Parameter in clause 5.5.2.1   PSCCH                                                                       
  ----------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- --------------
                                Sidelink transmission modes 1 and 2   Sidelink transmission modes 3 and 4   
  Group hopping                                                       disabled                              disabled
                                                                      \-                                    \-
                                                                      \-                                    \-
                                                                      0                                     8
  Sequence hopping                                                    disabled                              disabled
  Cyclic shift                                                        0                                     {0, 3, 6, 9}
  Orthogonal sequence                                                                                       
  Reference signal length                                                                                   
  Number of layers                                                    1                                     1
  Number of antenna ports                                             1                                     1

Table 9.8-3: Reference signal parameters for PSDCH and PSBCH.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Parameter in clause 5.5.2.1   PSDCH   PSBCH                                             
  ----------------------------- ------- ------------------------ ------------------------ ----------
                                        Sidelink transmission\   Sidelink transmission\   
                                        modes 1 and 2            modes 3 and 4            

  Group hopping                         disabled                 disabled                 disabled

                                        0                                                 

  Sequence hopping                      disabled                 disabled                 disabled

  Cyclic shift                          0                                                 

  (Orthogonal) sequence                                                                   

  Reference signal length                                                                 

  Number of layers                      1                        1                        1

  Number of antenna ports               1                        1                        1
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

9.9 SC-FDMA baseband signal generation
--------------------------------------

The time-continuous signal for antenna port in SC-FDMA symbol in a
sidelink slot is defined by clause 5.6 with replaced by .

The cyclic prefix length for each sidelink channel or signal may differ
from that configured for uplink transmissions.

9.10 Timing
-----------

Transmission of a sidelink radio frame number from the UE shall start
seconds before the start of the corresponding timing reference frame at
the UE. The UE is not required to receive sidelink or downlink
transmissions earlier than after the end of a sidelink transmission.

For PSDCH transmission and sidelink synchronization signal transmission
for PSDCH:

if the UE has a serving cell fulfilling the S criterion according to
\[10, clause 5.2.3.2\]

\- the timing of reference radio frame equals that of downlink radio
frame of the cell c as given in Clause 14.3.1 of \[4\] and

\- is given by clause 8.1,

otherwise

\- the timing of reference radio frame is implicitly obtained from \[4\]
and

\- .

For all other sidelink transmissions:

if the UE has a serving cell fulfilling the S criterion according to
\[10, clause 5.2.3.2\]

\- the timing of reference radio frame equals that of downlink radio
frame in the cell with the same uplink carrier frequency as the sidelink
and

\- is given by clause 8.1,

otherwise

\- the timing of reference radio frame is implicitly obtained from \[4\]
and

\- .

Figure 9.9-1: Sidelink timing relation.

The quantity differs between channels and signals according to

10 Narrowband IoT
=================

10.0 General
------------

### 10.0.1 Frame structure

#### 10.0.1.1 Frame structure type 1

Frame structure type 1 is applicable to FDD operation only.

#### 10.0.1.2 Frame structure type 2

Frame structure type 2 is applicable to TDD operation only.

The following restrictions apply:

\- Uplink-downlink configuration 0 and 6 are not supported.

\- UpPTS is not used for NPUSCH or NPRACH.

\- DwPTS and UpPTS in special subframe configuration 10 is not used for
transmissions.

\- On an NB-IoT carrier for which higher-layer parameter
*operationModeInfo* indicates *inband-SamePCI* or *inband-DifferentPCI*,
or higher-layer parameter *inbandCarrierInfo* is present, or on an
NB-IoT carrier for *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* for which
*sib1-carrierInfo* indicates *non-anchor* and the value of the higher
layer parameter *sib-GuardbandInfo* is set to
*sib-GuardbandInbandSamePCI* or *sib-GuardbandinbandDiffPCI*, DwPTS in
special subframe configuration 0 and 5 for normal cyclic prefix is not
used for NPDCCH and NPDSCH transmission.

\- Higher-layer parameter *symbolBitmap* does not apply to special
subframes.

10.1 Uplink
-----------

### 10.1.1 Overview

#### 10.1.1.1 Physical channels

The following narrowband physical channels are defined:

\- Narrowband Physical Uplink Shared Channel, NPUSCH

\- Narrowband Physical Random-Access Channel, NPRACH

#### 10.1.1.2 Physical signals

The following uplink narrowband physical signals are defined:

\- Narrowband demodulation reference signal

### 10.1.2 Slot structure and physical resources

#### 10.1.2.1 Resource grid

A transmitted physical channel or signal in a slot is described by one
or several resource grids of subcarriers and SC-FDMA symbols. The
resource grid is illustrated in Figure 10.1.2.1-1. The slot number
within a radio frame is denoted where for and for .

Figure 10.1.2.1-1: Uplink resource grid for NB-IoT

The uplink bandwidth in terms of subcarriers , and the slot duration are
given in Table 10.1.2.1-1.

Table 10.1.2.1-1: NB-IoT parameters.

  Subcarrier spacing      
  -------------------- -- --
                          
                          

A single antenna port is used for all uplink transmissions.

#### 10.1.2.2 Resource elements

Each element in the resource grid is called a resource element and is
uniquely defined by the index pair in a slot where and are the indices
in the frequency and time domains, respectively. Resource element
corresponds to the complex value *.* Quantities corresponding to
resource elements not used for transmission of a physical channel or a
physical signal in a slot shall be set to zero.

#### 10.1.2.3 Resource unit

Resource units are used to describe the mapping of the NPUSCH to
resource elements. A resource unit is defined as SC-FDMA symbols in the
time domain and consecutive subcarriers in the frequency domain, where
and are given by Tables 10.1.2.3-1 and 10.1.2.3-2 for frame structure
types 1 and 2, respectively.

Table 10.1.2.3-1: Supported combinations of , , and for frame structure
type 1.

  NPUSCH format   ![](media/image183.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}             
  --------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- ---
  1               3.75 kHz                                                                                1    16   7
                  15 kHz                                                                                  1    16   
                                                                                                          3    8    
                                                                                                          6    4    
                                                                                                          12   2    
  2               3.75 kHz                                                                                1    4    
                  15 kHz                                                                                  1    4    

Table 10.1.2.3-2: Supported combinations of
$\mathbf{N}_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RU}}$,
$\mathbf{N}_{\text{slots}}^{\text{UL}}$, and
$\mathbf{N}_{\text{symb}}^{\text{UL}}$ for frame structure type 2.

  **NPUSCH format**   ![](media/image183.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   **Supported uplink-downlink configurations**   ![](media/image187.wmf){width="0.2791666666666667in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image188.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image189.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
  ------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1                   3.75 kHz                                                                                1, 4                                           1                                                                                      16                                                                                     7
                      15 kHz                                                                                  1, 2, 3, 4, 5                                  1                                                                                      16                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                      8                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                             6                                                                                      4                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                             12                                                                                     2                                                                                      
  2                   3.75 kHz                                                                                1, 4                                           1                                                                                      4                                                                                      
                      15 kHz                                                                                  1, 2, 3, 4, 5                                  1                                                                                      4                                                                                      

### 10.1.3 Narrowband physical uplink shared channel

The narrowband physical uplink shared channel supports two formats:

\- NPUSCH format 1, used to carry the UL-SCH

\- NPUSCH format 2, used to carry uplink control information

#### 10.1.3.1 Scrambling

Scrambling shall be done according to clause 5.3.1. The scrambling
sequence generator shall be initialised with where is the first slot of
the transmission of the codeword. In case of NPUSCH repetitions, the
scrambling sequence shall be reinitialised according to the above
formula after every transmissions of the codeword with and set to the
first slot and the frame, respectively, used for the transmission of the
repetition. The quantity is given by clause 10.1.3.6.

#### 10.1.3.2 Modulation

Modulation shall be done according to clause 5.3.2 resulting in a block
of modulated symbols
$d^{\left( q \right)}\left( 0 \right),\ \ldots,\ d^{\left( q \right)}\left( M_{\text{symb}}^{(q)} - 1 \right)$.
Table 10.1.3.2-1 specifies the modulation mappings applicable for the
narrowband physical uplink shared channel.

The block of modulated symbols shall be multiplied with a code
$c_{\text{SR}}$ resulting in a block of modulation symbols
${\overline{d}}^{\left( q \right)}\left( 0 \right),\ \ldots,\ {\overline{d}}^{\left( q \right)}\left( M_{\text{symb}}^{\left( q \right)} - 1 \right)$
according to

${\overline{d}}^{(q)}\left( i \right) = c_{\text{SR}}\left( i \right)d^{(q)}\left( i \right)$

where

\-
$c_{\text{SR}}\left( i \right) = \left( - 1 \right)^{i},\ i = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,\ 15$
in case a positive scheduling request according to \[4\] is to be
transmitted using NPUSCH format 2

\- $c_{\text{SR}}\left( i \right) = 1$ otherwise

Table 10.1.3.2-1: NPUSCH modulation schemes

  NPUSCH format         **Modulation scheme**
  --------------- ----- -----------------------
  1               1     BPSK, QPSK
                  \>1   QPSK
  2               1     BPSK

#### 10.1.3.3 Layer mapping

Layer mapping shall be done according to clause 5.3.2A with using
${\overline{d}}^{\left( q \right)}\left( 0 \right),\ \ldots,\ {\overline{d}}^{\left( q \right)}\left( M_{\text{symb}}^{\left( q \right)} - 1 \right)$
instead of
$d^{\left( q \right)}\left( 0 \right),\ \ldots,\ d^{\left( q \right)}\left( M_{\text{symb}}^{(q)} - 1 \right)$.

#### 10.1.3.4 Transform precoding

Transform precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3 with and
replaced by .

#### 10.1.3.5 Precoding

Precoding shall be done according to clause 5.3.3A assuming a single
antenna port.

#### 10.1.3.6 Mapping to physical resources

Each NPUSCH codeword can be mapped to one or more than one resource
units, , as given by clause 16.5.1.2 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], each of
which shall be transmitted times.

The block of complex-valued symbols shall be multiplied with the
amplitude scaling factor in order to conform to the transmit power
specified in \[4\], and mapped in sequence starting with to subcarriers
assigned for transmission of NPUSCH. The mapping to resource elements
corresponding to the subcarriers assigned for transmission and not used
for transmission of reference signals, shall be in increasing order of
first the index , then the index, starting with the first slot in the
assigned resource unit.

After mapping to slots, the slots shall be repeated additional times,
before continuing the mapping of to the following slot, where

For NPUSCH Format 1 and 2 on frame structure type 2 with
![](media/image210.wmf){width="0.8951388888888889in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"},

\- the NPUSCH transmission is carried out in the first set of
![](media/image211.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} slots spanning over two contiguous
uplink subframes not overlapping with any uplink subframe configured as
invalid;

\- for TDD configuration 1 and 4, if the starting position for the
NPUSCH is indicated as the second of the two contiguous uplink
subframes, the NPUSCH transmission is postponed until the start of two
consecutive uplink subframes.

If a mapping to slots or a repetition of the mapping contains a resource
element which overlaps with

\- any configured NPRACH resource according to *nprach-ParametersList*
in *SystemInformationBlockType2-NB*, or

\- any configured NPRACH resource according to *nprach-ParametersList*
given by *ul-ConfigList* *in SystemInformationBlockType22-NB* and if the
UE indicates *multiCarrier-NPRACH* as supported, or

\- any configured NPRACH resource according to *nprach-ParametersList*
given by *ul-ConfigListMixed in SystemInformationBlockType22-NB* and if
the UE indicates *multiCarrier-NPRACH* *and mixedOperationMode* as
supported, or

\- any configured NPRACH resource according to
*nprach-ParametersListFmt2 in SystemInformationBlockType2-NB* and if the
UE indicates *nprach-Format2* as supported, or

\- any configured NPRACH resource according to
*nprach-ParametersListFmt2* given by *ul-ConfigList* *in
SystemInformationBlockType23-NB* and if the UE indicates
*multiCarrier-NPRACH* and *nprach-Format2* as supported, or

\- any configured NPRACH resource according to
*nprach-ParametersListFmt2* given by *ul-ConfigListMixed in
SystemInformationBlockType23-NB* and if the UE
indicates* multiCarrier-NPRACH, mixedOperationMode* *and
nprach-Format2* as supported, or

\- any configured NPRACH resource according to *nprach-ParametersListTDD
in SystemInformationBlockType2-NB*, or

\- any configured NPRACH resource according to
*nprach-ParametersListTDD* *in SystemInformationBlockType22-NB* and if
the UE indicates *multiCarrier-NPRACH* as supported, or

\- any configured NPRACH resource configured for Early Data Transmission
and if the NPUSCH transmission is during an Early Data Transmission
procedure \[12, Clause 7.3b\],

then,

\- for the NPUSCH transmission in overlapped slots is postponed until
the next slots not overlapping with any configured NPRACH resource.

\- for the NPUSCH transmission in overlapped slots is postponed until
the next slots starting with the first slot satisfying
$n_{\text{s}}\text{\ mod}\ 2 = 0$ $n_{\text{s}}\text{mod}\ 2 = 0$and not
overlapping with any configured NPRACH resource.

NPRACH gaps as defined in clause 10.1.6.1 are not part of the NPRACH
resource. For frame structure type 2, t**he valid uplink subframes which
are not used for NPRACH transmission when it is not possible to map G
symbol groups back-to-back are not part of the NPRACH resource.** The
mapping of is then repeated until slots have been transmitted. After
transmissions and/or postponements due to NPRACH of time units, for
frame structure type 1, a gap of time units shall be inserted where the
NPUSCH transmission is postponed. The portion of a postponement due to
NPRACH which coincides with a gap is counted as part of the gap.

When higher layer parameter *npusch-AllSymbols* is set to false,
resource elements in SC-FDMA symbols overlapping with a symbol
configured with SRS according to *srs-SubframeConfig* shall be counted
in the NPUSCH mapping but not used for transmission of the NPUSCH. When
higher layer parameter *npusch-AllSymbols* is set to true, all symbols
are transmitted.

If higher layer parameter *resourceReservationConfigUL* is configured,
then in case of NPUSCH format 1 transmission associated with C-RNTI or
SPS C-RNTI using UE-specific NPDCCH search space with the Resource
reservation field in the DCI set to 1 including NPUSCH format 1
transmission without a corresponding NPDCCH, or in case of NPUSCH format
2 transmission associated with C-RNTI using UE-specific NPDCCH search
space,

\- In a subframe for or a slot for that is overlapping with any fully
reserved uplink subframe as defined in clause 16.5 in \[4\],

\- for , the NPUSCH transmission is postponed until the next NB-IoT
uplink subframe that is not fully reserved.

\- for , the NPUSCH transmission in the slot is postponed until the next
slot spanning over two contiguous uplink subframes not overlapping with
any uplink subframe that is fully reserved.

\- In a subframe for or a slot for that is not overlapping with any
fully reserved uplink subframe, any SC-FDMA symbols overlapping with
reserved symbols shall be counted in the NPUSCH mapping but not used for
transmission of the NPUSCH.

### 10.1.4 Demodulation reference signal

#### 10.1.4.1 Reference signal sequence

##### 10.1.4.1.1 Reference signal sequence for 

The reference signal sequence for **is defined by**

where **the binary sequence** is defined by clause 7.2 **and** shall be
initialised with at the start of the NPUSCH transmission. The quantity
is given by Table 10.1.4.1.1-1 where **for NPUSCH format 2, and for
NPUSCH format 1if group hopping is not enabled, and by clause**
10.1.4.1.3 if group hopping is enabled for NPUSCH format 1**.**

Table 10.1.4.1.1-1: Definition of

  ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
  0    1   1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1
  1    1   -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    -1
  2    1   1    -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1
  3    1   -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   1
  4    1   1    1    1    -1   -1   -1   -1   1    1    1    1    -1   -1   -1   -1
  5    1   -1   1    -1   -1   1    -1   1    1    -1   1    -1   -1   1    -1   1
  6    1   1    -1   -1   -1   -1   1    1    1    1    -1   -1   -1   -1   1    1
  7    1   -1   -1   1    -1   1    1    -1   1    -1   -1   1    -1   1    1    -1
  8    1   1    1    1    1    1    1    1    -1   -1   -1   -1   -1   -1   -1   -1
  9    1   -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    -1   -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    -1   1
  10   1   1    -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    1
  11   1   -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    1    -1
  12   1   1    1    1    -1   -1   -1   -1   -1   -1   -1   -1   1    1    1    1
  13   1   -1   1    -1   -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    -1   1    1    -1   1    -1
  14   1   1    -1   -1   -1   -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    1    1    1    -1   -1
  15   1   -1   -1   1    -1   1    1    -1   -1   1    1    -1   1    -1   -1   1
  ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----

The reference signal sequence for NPUSCH format 1 is given by:

The reference signal sequence for NPUSCH format 2 is given by

where is **defined in** Table 5.5.2.2.1-2 with the sequence index chosen
according to
$\left( \sum_{i = 0}^{7}{c\left( 8n^{'} + i \right)} \bullet 2^{i} \right)mod\ 3$
with . For frame structure type 1, $n^{'} = n_{s}$. For frame structure
type 2, $n^{'} = \left( n_{s} + n_{f} \right)mod\ 5$ for and
$n^{'} = \left( n_{s} + n_{f} \right)mod\ 20$ for .

##### 10.1.4.1.2 Reference signal sequence for 

The reference signal sequences for **is defined by** a cyclic shift of a
base sequence according to

,

where **is given by Table 10.1.4.1.2-1 for , Table 10.1.4.1.2-2 for and
Table 5.5.1.2-1 for .**

**If group hopping is not enabled, the base sequence index is given by
higher layer parameters *threeTone-BaseSequence*,
*sixTone-BaseSequence*, and *twelveTone-BaseSequence* for , , and ,
respectively. If not signalled by higher layers, the base sequence is
given by**

**If group hopping is enabled, the base sequence index is given by
clause** 10.1.4.1.3.

**The cyclic shift** for **and** is derived from higher layer parameters
***threeTone-CyclicShift* and *sixTone-CyclicShift*, respectively,** as
defined in **Table 10.1.4.1.2-3. For , if *npusch-CyclicShift*** in
*PUR-Config-NB* is configured for NPUSCH (re)transmission corresponding
to preconfigured uplink resource it provides the value of
$n_{\text{cs}}$ and the cyclic shift $\alpha$ in a slot is given as
$\alpha = 2\pi n_{\text{cs}}/12$**, otherwise** .

Table 10.1.4.1.2-1: Definition of for

  $$\mathbf{u}$$   $$\mathbf{\phi}\left( \mathbf{0} \right)\mathbf{,\ \phi}\left( \mathbf{1} \right)\mathbf{,\ \phi}\left( \mathbf{2} \right)$$        
  ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---- ----
  0                1                                                                                                                              -3   -3
  1                1                                                                                                                              -3   -1
  2                1                                                                                                                              -3   3
  3                1                                                                                                                              -1   -1
  4                1                                                                                                                              -1   1
  5                1                                                                                                                              -1   3
  6                1                                                                                                                              1    -3
  7                1                                                                                                                              1    -1
  8                1                                                                                                                              1    3
  9                1                                                                                                                              3    -1
  10               1                                                                                                                              3    1
  11               1                                                                                                                              3    3

Table 10.1.4.1.2-2: Definition of for

  $$\mathbf{u}$$   $$\mathbf{\phi}\left( \mathbf{0} \right)\mathbf{,\ \ldots,\ \phi}\left( \mathbf{5} \right)$$                       
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
  0                1                                                                                              1    1    1    3    -3
  1                1                                                                                              1    3    1    -3   3
  2                1                                                                                              -1   -1   -1   1    -3
  3                1                                                                                              -1   3    -3   -1   -1
  4                1                                                                                              3    1    -1   -1   3
  5                1                                                                                              -3   -3   1    3    1
  6                -1                                                                                             -1   1    -3   -3   -1
  7                -1                                                                                             -1   -1   3    -3   -1
  8                3                                                                                              -1   1    -3   -3   3
  9                3                                                                                              -1   3    -3   -1   1
  10               3                                                                                              -3   3    -1   3    3
  11               -3                                                                                             1    3    1    -3   -1
  12               -3                                                                                             1    -3   3    -3   -1
  13               -3                                                                                             3    -3   1    1    -3

Table 10.1.4.1.2-3: Definition of

  ------------------------- -- ----------------------- --
  *threeTone-CyclicShift*      *sixTone-CyclicShift*   
  0                            0                       
  1                            1                       
  2                            2                       
                               3                       
  ------------------------- -- ----------------------- --

##### 10.1.4.1.3 Group hopping

For the reference signal for NPUSCH format 1, sequence-group hopping can
be enabled where the sequence-group number in slot of a radio frame
$n_{\text{f}}$ is defined by a group hopping pattern
$f_{\text{gh}}\left( n^{'} \right)$ and a sequence-shift pattern
according to

$$u = \left( f_{\text{gh}}\left( n^{'} \right) + f_{\text{ss}} \right)\ \text{mod}\ N_{\text{seq}}^{\text{RU}}$$

where the number of reference signal sequences available for each
resource unit size, is given by Table 10.1.4.1.3-1.

Table 10.1.4.1.3-1: Definition of

  ---- ----
  1    16
  3    12
  6    14
  12   30
  ---- ----

Sequence-group hopping can be enabled or disabled by means of the
cell-specific parameter *groupHoppingEnabled* provided by higher layers.
Sequence-group hopping for NPUSCH can be disabled for a certain UE
through the higher-layer parameter *groupHoppingDisabled* despite being
enabled on a cell basis unless the NPUSCH transmission corresponds to a
Random Access Response Grant or a retransmission of the same transport
block as part of the contention based random access procedure.

The group-hopping pattern $f_{\text{gh}}\left( n^{'} \right)$ is given
by

$f_{\text{gh}}\left( n^{'} \right) = \left( \sum_{i = 0}^{7}{c\left( 8n^{'} + i \right) \bullet 2^{i}} \right)\ \text{mod}\text{\ \ }N_{\text{seq}}^{\text{RU}}$

where $n^{'} = n_{\text{s}}$ for **. When**
$N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RU}} = 1$**, for frame structure type 1,** $n^{'}$
is the slot number $n_{\text{s}}$ of the first slot of the resource unit
and for frame structure type 2, $n^{'}$ is the frame number
$n_{\text{f}}$ of the first slot of the resource unit. The pseudo-random
sequence is defined by clause 7.2. The pseudo-random sequence generator
shall be initialized with
$c_{\text{init}} = \left\lfloor \frac{N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{Ncell}}}{N_{\text{seq}}^{\text{RU}}} \right\rfloor$
at the beginning of the resource unit for **and in every** even slot for
.

The sequence-shift pattern is given by

where is given by higher-layer parameter *groupAssignmentNPUSCH*. If no
value is signalled, .

#### 10.1.4.2 Mapping to physical resources

The sequence shall be multiplied with the amplitude scaling factor and
mapped in sequence starting with to the sub-carriers.\
The set of sub-carriers used in the mapping process shall be identical
to the corresponding NPUSCH transmission as defined in clause 10.1.3.6.\
The mapping to resource elements shall be in increasing order of first,
then , and finally the slot number. The values of the symbol index in a
slot are given in Table 10.1.4.2-1.

Table 10.1.4.2-1: Demodulation reference signal location for NPUSCH.

  NPUSCH format   Values for   
  --------------- ------------ -------
                               
  1               4            3
  2               0,1,2        2,3,4

If higher layer parameter *resourceReservationConfigUL* is configured,
then in case of NPUSCH format 1 transmission associated with C-RNTI or
SPS C-RNTI using UE-specific NPDCCH search space and the Resource
reservation field in the DCI is set to 1 including NPUSCH format 1
transmission without a corresponding NPDCCH, or in case of NPUSCH format
2 transmission associated with C-RNTI using UE-specific NPDCCH search
space,

\- In a subframe for or a slot for that is overlapping with any fully
reserved uplink subframe as defined in clause 16.5 in \[4\],

\- for , the demodulation reference signal transmission is postponed
until the next NB-IoT uplink subframe that is not fully reserved.

\- for , the demodulation reference signal transmission in the slot is
postponed until the next slot spanning over two contiguous uplink
subframes not overlapping with any uplink subframe that is fully
reserved.

\- In a subframe for or a slot for that is not overlapping with any
fully reserved uplink subframe, any demodulation reference signal
transmission in SC-FDMA symbols overlapping with reserved symbols is
dropped.

### 10.1.5 SC-FDMA baseband signal generation

For **,** the time-continuous signal in SC-FDMA symbol in a slot is
defined by clause 5.6 with the quantity replaced by .

For **, t**he time-continuous signal for sub-carrier index in SC-FDMA
symbol in an uplink slot is defined by

for where parameters for and are given in Table 10.1.5-1, is the
modulation value of symbol , and the phase rotation is defined by

$$\phi_{k,j} = \rho\left( \widetilde{l}\ mod\ 2 \right) + \varphi_{k}\left( \widetilde{l} \right)$$

$$\rho = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
\frac{\pi}{2}\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ for\ BPSK} \\
\frac{\pi}{4}\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ for\ QPSK\ } \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $$

$$\ \varphi_{k}\left( \widetilde{l} \right) = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \widetilde{l} = 0 \\
\varphi_{k}\left( \widetilde{l} - 1 \right) + 2\pi\Delta f\left( k + 1/2 \right)\left( N + N_{\text{CP},l} \right)T_{s}\text{\ \ \ \ }\widetilde{l} > 0 \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $$

$$\ \widetilde{l} = 0,1,\ldots,N_{\text{TB}}M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPUSCH}}N_{\text{RU}}N_{\text{slots}}^{\text{UL}}N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{UL}} - 1$$

$$l = \ \widetilde{l}\text{\ mod\ }N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{UL}}$$

where $N_{\text{TB}}$ is the number of transport blocks defined in
16.5.1 of TS 36.213 \[4\]. If $N_{\text{TB}}$ \>1 and interleaving
between codewords is applied according to clause 16.5.1 of
TS 36.213 \[4\], then the symbol counter is reset at the start of the
first NPUSCH codeword transmission and incremented for each symbol
during the transmission of the $N_{\text{TB}}$ NPUSCH codewords. For
other cases, the symbol counter is reset to 0 at the start of each
NPUSCH codeword transmission and incremented for each symbol during the
transmission of the NPUSCH codeword.

Table 10.1.5-1: SC-FDMA parameters for

  Parameter                                
  ----------------------- ---------------- -------------
                          8192             2048
  Cyclic prefix length    256              
  **Set of values for**   -24,-23,...,23   -6,-5,...,5

The SC-FDMA symbols in a slot shall be transmitted in increasing order
of , starting with , where SC-FDMA symbol starts at time within the
slot. For , the remaining in are not transmitted and used for guard
period.

Only normal CP is supported for Narrowband IoT uplink in this release of
the specification.

### 10.1.6 Narrowband physical random-access channel

#### 10.1.6.1 Time and frequency structure

The physical layer random access preamble is based on single-subcarrier
frequency-hopping symbol groups. A symbol group is illustrated in Figure
10.1.6.1-1, consisting of a cyclic prefix of length and a sequence of
identical symbols with total length. The total number of symbol groups
in a preamble repetition unit is denoted by $P$. The number of
time-contiguous symbol groups is given by $G$.

The parameter values for frame structures 1 and 2 are listed in Tables
10.1.6.1-1 and 10.1.6.1-2, respectively.

Figure 10.1.6.1-1: Random access symbol group

Table 10.1.6.1-1: Random access preamble parameters for frame structure
type 1

  Preamble format   ![](media/image304.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image305.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image306.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image307.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image308.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
  ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0                 4                                                                                       4                                                                                       5                                                                                       ![](media/image309.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image310.wmf){width="0.5930555555555556in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
  1                 4                                                                                       4                                                                                       5                                                                                       ![](media/image311.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image312.wmf){width="0.5930555555555556in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
  2                 6                                                                                       6                                                                                       3                                                                                       ![](media/image313.wmf){width="0.5118055555555555in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}    3$\bullet 24576T_{\text{s}}$

Table 10.1.6.1-2: Random access preamble parameters for frame structure
type 2

  Preamble format   Supported uplink-downlink configurations   ![](media/image304.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image314.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image315.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image307.wmf){width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image308.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
  ----------------- ------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0                 1, 2, 3, 4, 5                              2                                                                                       4                                                                                       1                                                                                       $$4768T_{s}$$                                                                           ![](media/image316.wmf){width="0.48819444444444443in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
  1                 1, 4                                       2                                                                                       4                                                                                       2                                                                                       ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image318.wmf){width="0.6159722222222223in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
  2                 3                                          2                                                                                       4                                                                                       4                                                                                       ![](media/image317.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image319.wmf){width="0.6159722222222223in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
  0-a               1, 2, 3, 4, 5                              3                                                                                       6                                                                                       1                                                                                       ![](media/image320.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image321.wmf){width="0.48819444444444443in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}
  1-a               1, 4                                       3                                                                                       6                                                                                       2                                                                                       ![](media/image322.wmf){width="0.40694444444444444in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   ![](media/image323.wmf){width="0.6159722222222223in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}

The preamble consisting of $P$ symbol groups shall be transmitted times.
For frame structure type 2, when an invalid uplink subframe overlaps the
transmission of $G$ symbol groups without a gap, the $G$ symbol groups
are dropped. For frame structure type 2, the transmission of $G$ symbol
groups are aligned with the subframe boundary.

The transmission of a random-access preamble, if triggered by the MAC
layer, is restricted to certain time and frequency resources.

A NPRACH configuration provided by higher layers contains the following:

\- NPRACH resource periodicity *(nprach-Periodicity),*

\- *frequency location of the first subcarrier allocated to NPRACH*
*(nprach-SubcarrierOffset),*

\- *number of subcarriers allocated to NPRACH*
*(nprach-NumSubcarriers),*

*- number of starting sub-carriers allocated to UE initiated random
access* *(nprach-NumCBRA-StartSubcarriers)*,

\- number of NPRACH repetitions per attempt
(*numRepetitionsPerPreambleAttempt*),

\- NPRACH starting time (*nprach-StartTime*),

\- Fraction for calculating starting subcarrier index for the range of
NPRACH subcarriers reserved for indication of UE support for multi-tone
msg3 transmission (*nprach-SubcarrierMSG3-RangeStart*).

NPRACH transmission can start only time units after the start of a radio
frame fulfilling . For frame structure type 1, after transmissions of
time units for preamble formats 0 and 1, or
$16 \bullet 6(T_{\text{CP}} + T_{\text{SEQ}})$ time units for preamble
format 2, a gap of time units shall be inserted.

NPRACH configurations where are invalid.

The NPRACH starting subcarriers *allocated to UE initiated random
access* are split in two sets of subcarriers, and , where the second
set, if present, indicate UE support for multi-tone msg3 transmission.

The frequency location of the NPRACH transmission is constrained within
sub-carriers, and within $N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}} = 36\ $ subcarriers
when preamble format 2 as described in Table 10.1.6.1-1 is configured.
Frequency hopping shall be used within the 12 subcarriers and 36
subcarriers when preamble format 2 as described in Table 10.1.6.1-1 is
configured, where the frequency location of the *i^th^* symbol group is
given by where . The quantity
${\widetilde{n}}_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i \right)$ depends on the
frame structure.

For frame structure type 1:

\- if $G = 4$, $P = 4$ for preamble formats 0 and 1 as described in
Table 10.1.6.1-1:

where with being the subcarrier selected by the MAC layer from , and the
pseudo random sequence is given by clause 7.2. The pseudo random
sequence generator shall be initialised with .

\- if $G = 6$, $P = 6$ for preamble format 2 as described in Table
10.1.6.1-1:

${\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i \right) = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
\begin{matrix}
\left( {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( 0 \right) + f(i/6) \right)\text{mod}N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}} & i\ \text{mod\ }6 = 0\ \text{and}\ i > 0 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 1 & i\ \text{mod\ }6 = 1,\ 5\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right)\text{\ mod\ }2 = 0 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 1 & i\ \text{mod\ }6 = 1,\ 5\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right)\text{\ mod\ }2 = 1 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 3 & i\ \text{mod\ }6 = 2,\ 4\ \text{and}\ \left\lfloor \frac{{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right)}{3} \right\rfloor\text{\ mod\ }2 = 0 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 3 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 2,\ 4\ \text{and}\ \left\lfloor \frac{{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right)}{3} \right\rfloor\text{\ mod\ }2 = 1 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 18 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 3\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) < 18 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 18 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 3\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) \geq 18 \\
\end{matrix} \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $

$f\left( t \right) = \left( f\left( t - 1 \right) + \left( \sum_{n = 10t + 1}^{10t + 9}{c\left( n \right)2^{n - \left( 10t + 1 \right)}} \right)\text{mod}\left( N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}} - 1 \right) + 1 \right)\text{mod}N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}}$

$f\left( - 1 \right) = 0$

where ![](media/image347.wmf){width="1.4069444444444446in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} with
![](media/image348.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} being the subcarrier selected by the MAC
layer from ![](media/image349.wmf){width="1.1979166666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}, and the pseudo random sequence
![](media/image350.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} is given by clause 7.2. The pseudo
random sequence generator shall be initialised with
![](media/image351.wmf){width="0.6979166666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}.

For frame structure type 2:

\- if $G = 2$, $P = 4$ for preamble formats 0, 1, and 2 as described in
Table 10.1.6.1-2:

${\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i \right) = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
\begin{matrix}
\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Y} & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 0,\ 2\ \text{and}\ i > 0 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 1\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 0,\ 2,\ 4,\ 6,\ 8,\ 10 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 1\text{\ and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 1,\ 3,\ 5,\ 7,\ 9,\ 11 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 3\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 0,\ 1,\ 2,\ 3,\ 4,\ 5 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 3\text{\ and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 6,\ 7,\ 8,\ 9,\ 10,\ 11 \\
\ 2\left\lfloor \frac{Y}{2} \right\rfloor + 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 4\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 4 \right) = 0,\ 2,\ 4,\ 6,\ 8,\ 10 \\
\ 2\left\lfloor \frac{Y}{2} \right\rfloor & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 4\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 4 \right) = 1,\ 3,\ 5,\ 7,\ 9,\ 11 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 5\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 1,\ 3,\ 5,\ 7,\ 9,\ 11 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 5\ \text{and}{\widetilde{\ n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 0,\ 2,\ 4,\ 6,\ 8,\ 10 \\
\text{Y\ }\text{mod}\ 6 + 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 6\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 4 \right) = 0,\ 1,\ 2,\ 3,\ 4,\ 5 \\
\text{Y\ }\text{mod}\ 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 6\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 4 \right) = 6,\ 7,\ 8,\ 9,\ 10,\ 11 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 7\text{\ }\text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 6,\ 7,\ 8,\ 9,\ 10,\ 11 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 8 = 7\ \text{and}\text{\ }{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 0,\ 1,\ 2,\ 3,\ 4,\ 5 \\
\end{matrix} \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $

$Y = \left( {\text{\ }\text{ñ}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( 0 \right) + f(i/2) \right)\text{mod}N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}}$

$f\left( t \right) = \left( f\left( t - 1 \right) + \left( \sum_{n = 10t + 1}^{10t + 9}{c\left( n \right)2^{n - \left( 10t + 1 \right)}} \right)\text{mod}\left( N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}} - 1 \right) + 1 \right)\text{mod}N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}}$

$f\left( - 1 \right) = 0$

where ![](media/image347.wmf){width="1.4069444444444446in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} with
![](media/image348.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} being the subcarrier selected by the MAC
layer from ![](media/image349.wmf){width="1.1979166666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}, and the pseudo random sequence
![](media/image350.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} is given by clause 7.2. The pseudo
random sequence generator shall be initialised with
![](media/image351.wmf){width="0.6979166666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}.

\- if $G = 3$, $P = 6$ for preamble formats 0-a, 1-a, as described in
Table 10.1.6.1-2:

${\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i \right) = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
\begin{matrix}
\left( {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( 0 \right) + f(i/3) \right)\text{mod}N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}} & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 0,\ 3\ \text{and}\ i > 0 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 1\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 0,\ 2,\ 4,\ 6,\ 8,\ 10 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 2\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 2 \right) = 0,\ 2,\ 4,\ 6,\ 8,\ 10 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 1\text{\ and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 1,\ 3,\ 5,\ 7,\ 9,\ 11 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 1 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 2\text{\ and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 2 \right) = 1,\ 3,\ 5,\ 7,\ 9,\ 11 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 4\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 0,\ 1,\ 2,\ 3,\ 4,\ 5 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 5\text{\ }\text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 2 \right) = 0,\ 1,\ 2,\ 3,\ 4,\ 5 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) - 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 4\ \text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) = 6,\ 7,\ 8,\ 9,\ 10,\ 11 \\
{\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 1 \right) + 6 & i\ \text{mod}\ 6 = 5\text{\ }\text{and}\ {\widetilde{n}}_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i - 2 \right) = 6,\ 7,\ 8,\ 9,\ 10,\ 11 \\
\end{matrix} \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $

$f\left( t \right) = \left( f\left( t - 1 \right) + \left( \sum_{n = 10t + 1}^{10t + 9}{c\left( n \right)2^{n - \left( 10t + 1 \right)}} \right)\text{mod}\left( N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}} - 1 \right) + 1 \right)\text{mod}{\ N}_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RA}}$

$f\left( - 1 \right) = 0$

where ![](media/image347.wmf){width="1.4069444444444446in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} with
![](media/image348.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} being the subcarrier selected by the MAC
layer from ![](media/image349.wmf){width="1.1979166666666667in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}, and the pseudo random sequence
![](media/image350.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} is given by clause 7.2. The pseudo
random sequence generator shall be initialised with
![](media/image351.wmf){width="0.6979166666666666in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"}.

#### 10.1.6.2 Baseband signal generation

The time-continuous random-access signal for symbol group is defined by

$s_{i}\left( t \right) = \beta_{\text{NPRACH}}e^{j2\pi\left( n_{\text{SC}}^{\text{RA}}\left( i \right) + Kk_{0} + \frac{1}{2} \right)\Delta f_{\text{RA}}\left( t - T_{\text{CP}} \right)}$

where $0 \leq t \leq T_{\text{SEQ}} + T_{\text{CP}}$, is an amplitude
scaling factor in order to conform to the transmit power specified in
clause 16.3.1 in 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], , accounts for the difference in
subcarrier spacing between the random access preamble and uplink data
transmission, and the location in the frequency domain controlled by the
parameter is derived from clause 10.1.6.1. The variable is given by
Table 10.1.6.2-1.

Table 10.1.6.2-1: Random access baseband parameters

  **Preamble format**   ![](media/image360.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in" height="0.19791666666666666in"}   
  --------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
                        **Frame Structure Type 1**                                                             **Frame Structure Type 2**
  0, 1                  3.75 kHz                                                                               
  0-a, 1-a                                                                                                     3.75 kHz
  2                     1.25 kHz                                                                               3.75 kHz

### 10.1.7 Modulation and upconversion

Modulation and upconversion to the carrier frequency of the
complex-valued baseband signal or the complex-valued NPRACH baseband
signal is shown in Figure 5.8-1. The filtering required prior to
transmission is defined by the requirements in 3GPP TS 36.101 \[7\].

10.2 Downlink
-------------

### 10.2.1 Overview

#### 10.2.1.1 Physical channels

A downlink narrowband physical channel corresponds to a set of resource
elements carrying information originating from higher layers and is the
interface defined between 3GPP TS 36.212 \[3\] and the present document
3GPP TS 36.211.

The following downlink physical channels are defined:

\- Narrowband Physical Downlink Shared Channel, NPDSCH

\- Narrowband Physical Broadcast Channel, NPBCH

\- Narrowband Physical Downlink Control Channel, NPDCCH

#### 10.2.1.2 Physical signals

A downlink narrowband physical signal corresponds to a set of resource
elements used by the physical layer but does not carry information
originating from higher layers. The following downlink physical signals
are defined:

\- Narrowband reference signal, NRS

\- Narrowband synchronization signal

\- Narrowband positioning reference signal, NPRS

\- Narrowband wake up signal, NWUS

### 10.2.2 Slot structure and physical resource elements

#### 10.2.2.1 Resource grid

The transmitted signal on one antenna port in each slot is described by
a resource grid of size one resource block as defined in clause 6.2.3.

*Only* is supported.

Narrowband positioning reference signals are transmitted on antenna port
. The channel over which a symbol on antenna port is conveyed can be
inferred from the channel over which another symbol on the same antenna
port is conveyed only within consecutive subframes where

\- if the higher layer parameter *nprsBitmap* is configured , equals the
length of the *nprsBitmap*;

\- if the higher layer parameter *nprsBitmap* is not configured, where
is configured by higher layers.

#### 10.2.2.2 Resource elements

Resource elements are defined according to clause 6.2.2.

#### 10.2.2.3 Guard period for half-duplex FDD operation

Only type-B half-duplex FDD operation is supported.

#### 10.2.2.4 Guard period for TDD operation

For frame structure type 2, if a NB-IoT UE is configured with higher
layer parameter *twoHARQ-ProcessesConfig*, a guard period is created by
the UE by

\- not receiving the first part of the first OFDM symbol of a downlink
subframe immediately following an uplink subframe from the same UE for
15-kHz subcarrier spacing on an NB-IoT carrier for which higher-layer
parameter *operationModeInfo* indicates *guardband* or *standalone*, or
higher-layer parameter *inbandCarrierInfo* is not present.

### 10.2.3 Narrowband physical downlink shared channel

#### 10.2.3.1 Scrambling

Scrambling shall be done according to clause 6.3.1. If the NPDSCH is
carrying the BCCH, the scrambling sequence generator shall be
initialised with . Otherwise, the scrambling sequence generator shall be
initialised with whereis the first slot of the transmission of the
codeword.

In case of NPDSCH repetitions and the NPDSCH carrying the BCCH, the
scrambling sequence generator shall be reinitialized according to the
expression above for each repetition.

In case of NPDSCH repetitions and the NPDSCH is not carrying the BCCH,
the scrambling sequence generator shall be reinitialized according to
the expression above after every
$\text{min}\left( M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}},4 \right)$ transmission
of the codeword withand set to the first slot and the frame,
respectively, used for the transmission of the repetition.

#### 10.2.3.2 Modulation

Modulation shall be done according to clause 6.3.2 using one of the
modulation schemes in Table 10.2.3-1

Table 10.2.3-1: Modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  NPDSCH             QPSK

#### 10.2.3.3 Layer mapping and precoding

Layer mapping and precoding shall be done according to clause 6.6.3
using the same set of antenna ports as the NPBCH.

#### 10.2.3.4 Mapping to resource elements

Each NPDSCH codeword can be mapped to one or more than one subframes, ,
as given by clause 16.4.1.3 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], each of which shall
be transmitted $M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}}$ times.

For each of the antenna ports used for transmission of the physical
channel, the block of complex-valued symbols shall be mapped to resource
elements which meet all of the following criteria in the current
subframe:

\- the subframe is not used for transmission of NPBCH, NPSS, or NSSS,
and

\- except in a special subframe when
$M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}} > 1$, they are assumed by the UE not to
be used for NRS, and

\- they are not overlapping with resource elements used for CRS as
defined in clause 6 (if any), and

\- the index in the first slot in a subframe fulfils where is given by
clause 16.4.1.4 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\], and

\- in addition, for frame structure type 2

\- in a special subframe, if $M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}} = 1$, they
are in DwPTS

\- in a special subframe, if $M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}} > 1$, they
are not NRS locations in subframes which are not special subframes.

The mapping of in sequence starting with to resource elements on antenna
port meeting the criteria above shall be in increasing order of first
the index and then the index, starting with the first slot and ending
with the second slot in a subframe. For NPDSCH not carrying BCCH, after
mapping to a subframe, the subframe shall be repeated for
$\text{min}\left( M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}},4 \right) - 1$
additional subframes, before continuing the mapping of to the following
subframe.

The resource elements in a special subframe that are not part of DwPTS
are counted but not used in the mapping if
$M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}} > 1$. When
$l = \ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 5,\ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 4$,
the resource elements in a special subframe assumed by the UE for NRSs
are counted but not used in the mapping if
$M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}} > 1$.

For frame structure type 1,

\- for NPDSCH associated with C-RNTI when
*interferenceRandomisationConfig* is used according to \[9\], or

\- for NPDSCH associated with RA-RNTI, TC-RNTI or P-RNTI and transmitted
in an NB-IoT carrier configured by *SystemInformationBlockType22-NB*, or

\- for NPDSCH associated with C-RNTI in an NB-IoT carrier configured by
*SystemInformationBlockType22-NB* when *RadioResourceConfigDedicted-NB*
is not configured by higher layer, or

\- for NPDSCH associated with *PUR-RNTI/*G-RNTI/ SC-RNTI, or

*for frame structure type 2,*

\- for NPDSCH not carrying the BCCH,

*define* as the block of complex-valued symbols mapped to subframe
number $\left\lfloor n_{s}/2 \right\rfloor$ and radio frame number .
Each complex-valued symbol shall be multiplied with before its
transmission, with

where the scrambling sequence is given by clause 7.2 and shall be
initialized at the start of each subframe with .

The mapping of is then repeated until
$M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}}N_{\text{SF}}$ subframes have been
transmitted. For frame structure type 2, the resource elements in a
special subframe that are not part of DwPTS are counted but not used in
the repetition. When
$l = \ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 5,\ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 4$,
the resource elements in a special subframe assumed by the UE for NRSs
are counted but not used in the repetition.

For NPDSCH carrying BCCH, the
$y^{\left( p \right)}\left( (k - 1)M_{\text{symb}}^{\text{ap}} \right),\ \ldots,\ y^{\left( p \right)}\left( kM_{\text{symb}}^{\text{ap}} - 1 \right)$
is mapped to subframes in sequence and then repeated until
$M_{\text{rep}}^{\text{NPDSCH}}N_{\text{SF}}$ subframes have been
transmitted, where

\- $k = 2$ for mapping NPDSCH carrying *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*
to subframe \#3 for frame structure type 1;

\- $k = 1$ otherwise.

The NPDSCH transmission can be configured by higher layers with
transmission gaps where the NPDSCH transmission is postponed. There are
no gaps in the NPDSCH transmission if where is given by the higher layer
parameter *dl-GapThreshold* and is given by \[4\]. The gap starting
frame and subframe is given by where the gap periodicity,, is given by
the higher layer parameter *dl-GapPeriodicity*. The gap duration in
number of subframes is given by , where is given by the higher layer
parameter *dl-GapDurationCoeff*. For NPDSCH carrying the BCCH there are
no gaps in the transmission.

The UE shall not expect NPDSCH in subframe if it is not a NB-IoT
downlink subframe, except for transmissions of NPDSCH carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* in

\- subframes 3 and 4 for frame structure type 1; and

\- subframes 0, 4, and 5 for frame structure type 2.

In case of NPDSCH transmissions, in subframes that are not NB-IoT
downlink subframes, the NPDSCH transmission is postponed until the next
NB-IoT downlink subframe.

If higher layer parameter *resourceReservationConfigDL* is configured,
then in case of NPDSCH transmission associated with C-RNTI using
UE-specific NPDCCH search space with the Resource reservation field in
the DCI set to 1,

\- In a subframe that is fully reserved as defined in clause 16.4 in
\[4\], the NPDSCH transmission is postponed until the next NB-IoT
downlink subframe that is not fully reserved.

\- In a subframe that is partially reserved, the reserved OFDM symbols
shall be counted in the NPDSCH mapping but not used for transmission of
the NPDSCH.

### 10.2.4 Narrowband physical broadcast channel

#### 10.2.4.1 Scrambling

Scrambling shall be done according to clause 6.6.1 with denoting the
number of bits to be transmitted on the NPBCH. equals 1600 for normal
cyclic prefix. The scrambling sequence shall be initialised with in
radio frames fulfilling.

#### 10.2.4.2 Modulation

Modulation shall be done according to clause 6.6.2 using the modulation
scheme in Table 10.2.4.2-1

Table 10.2.4.2-1: Modulation schemes for NPBCH

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  NPBCH              QPSK

#### 10.2.4.3 Layer mapping and precoding

Layer mapping and precoding shall be done according to clause 6.6.3 with
. The UE shall assume antenna ports 2000 and 2001 are used for the
transmission of the narrowband physical broadcast channel.

#### 10.2.4.4 Mapping to resource elements

The block of complex-valued symbols for each antenna port is transmitted
in subframe 0 for frame structure type 1 or subframe 9 for frame
structure type 2 during 64 consecutive radio frames starting in each
radio frame fulfilling . The quantity $M_{\text{symb}} = 800$ for normal
cyclic prefix. Define as the block of complex-valued symbols to be
transmitted in subframe 0 for frame structure type 1 or subframe 9 for
frame structure type 2 of radio frame , as , with for normal cyclic
prefix, and

where the scrambling sequence , is given by clause 7.2, and shall be
initialized at the start of each radio frame with . The block of
complex-valued symbols shall be mapped in sequence starting with to
resource elements . The mapping to resource elements not reserved for
transmission of reference signals shall be in increasing order of first
the index, then the index . The first three OFDM symbols in a subframe
shall not be used in the mapping process.

For the purpose of the mapping, the UE shall assume cell-specific
reference signals for antenna ports 0-3 and narrowband reference signals
for antenna ports 2000 and 2001 being present irrespective of the actual
configuration. The frequency shift of the cell-specific reference
signals shall be calculated by replacing with in the calculation of in
clause 6.10.1.2.

### 10.2.5 Narrowband physical downlink control channel

#### 10.2.5.1 NPDCCH formats

The narrowband physical downlink control channel carries control
information. A narrowband physical control channel is transmitted on an
aggregation of one or two consecutive narrowband control channel
elements (NCCEs), where a narrowband control channel element corresponds
to *6 consecutive subcarriers in a subframe where NCCE 0 occupies
subcarriers 0 through 5 and NCCE 1 occupies subcarriers 6 through 11*.
The NPDCCH supports multiple formats as listed in Table 10.2.5.1-1. For
NPDCCH format 1, both NCCEs belong to the same subframe.

One or two NPDCCHs can be transmitted in a subframe.

Table 10.2.5.1-1: Supported NPDCCH formats

  NPDCCH format   Number of NCCEs
  --------------- -----------------
  0               1
  1               2

#### 10.2.5.2 Scrambling

Scrambling shall be done according to clause 6.8.2. The scrambling
sequence shall be initialised at the start of subframe *k*~0~ according
to \[4\] Clause 16.6 and after every 4^th^ NPDCCH subframe with **where
is the first slot of the NPDCCH subframe in which scrambling is**
(re-)**initialized**.

#### 10.2.5.3 Modulation

Modulation shall be done according to clause 6.8.3 using the modulation
scheme in Table 10.2.5.3-1

Table 10.2.5.3-1: Modulation schemes

  Physical channel   Modulation schemes
  ------------------ --------------------
  NPDCCH             QPSK

#### 10.2.5.4 Layer mapping and precoding

Layer mapping and precoding shall be done according to clause 6.6.3
using the same set of antenna ports as the NPBCH.

#### 10.2.5.5 Mapping to resource elements

The block of complex-valued symbols shall be mapped in sequence starting
with to resource elements on the associated antenna port which meet all
of the following criteria:

\- they are part of the NCCE(s) assigned for the NPDCCH transmission,
and

\- they are not used for transmission of NPBCH, NPSS, or NSSS, and

\- except in a special subframe when NPDCCH is transmitted in more than
one subframe, they are assumed by the UE not to be used for NRS, and

\- they are not overlapping with resource elements used for CRS as
defined in clause 6 (if any), and

\- the index in the first slot in a subframe fulfils where is given by
clause 16.6.1 of 3GPP TS 36.213 \[4\],

\- in addition, for frame structure Type 2,

\- in a special subframe where the NPDCCH is transmitted in one
subframe, they are in DwPTS

\- in a special subframe where the NPDCCH is transmitted in more than
one subframe, they are not NRS locations when the subframe is not a
special subframe.

The mapping to resource elements on antenna port meeting the criteria
above shall be in increasing order of first the index and then the
index, starting with the first slot and ending with the second slot in a
subframe. *Denote* as the complex-valued symbols that are mapped to
resource elements meeting the criteria above in subframe
$\left\lfloor n_{s}/2 \right\rfloor$, with the insertion of \<NIL\>
elements in the locations of resource elements which are not part of the
NCCE(s) assigned for the NPDCCH transmission.

If the NPDCCH is transmitted in more than one subframe, the resource
elements in a special subframe that are not part of DwPTS are counted
but not used in the mapping. When
$l = \ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 5,\ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 4$,
the resource elements in a special subframe assumed by the UE for NRSs
are counted but not used in the mapping if the NPDCCH is transmitted in
more than one subframe.

For frame structure type 1,

\- for NPDCCH associated with *RA-RNTI, TC-RNTI or*

*- for P-RNTI* and transmitted in an NB-IoT carrier configured by
*SystemInformationBlockType22-NB, or*

*- for NPDCCH associated with C-RNTI in an NB-IoT carrier configured by
SystemInformationBlockType22-NB when RadioResourceConfigDedicted-NB is
not configured by higher layer, or*

*- for NPDCCH associated with PUR-RNTI/G-RNTI/ SC-RNTI,* or

\- for NPDCCH associated with C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI when
*interferenceRandomisationConfig is used according to \[9\], or*

*for frame structure type 2,*

each complex-valued symbol , shall be multiplied with ,where

where the scrambling sequence is given by clause 7.2 and shall be
initialized at the start of each subframe with .

The NPDCCH transmission can be configured by higher layers with
transmissions gaps where the NPDCCH transmission is postponed. The
configuration is the same as described for NPDSCH in clause 10.2.3.4.

The UE shall not expect NPDCCH in subframe if it is not a NB-IoT
downlink subframe. In case of NPDCCH transmissions, in subframes that
are not NB-IoT downlink subframes, the NPDCCH transmission is postponed
until the next NB-IoT downlink subframe.

If higher layer parameter *resourceReservationConfigDL* is configured,
then in case of NPDCCH transmission associated with C-RNTI or SPS C-RNTI
using UE-specific NPDCCH search space,

\- In a subframe that is fully reserved as defined in clause 16.4 in
\[4\], the NPDCCH transmission is postponed until the next NB-IoT
downlink subframe that is not fully reserved.

\- In a subframe that is partially reserved, the reserved OFDM symbols
shall be counted in the NPDCCH mapping but not used for transmission of
the NPDCCH.

### 10.2.6 Narrowband reference signal (NRS)

Before a UE obtains *operationModeInfo*:

\- If frame structure type 1 is used, the UE may assume narrowband
reference signals (NRSs) are transmitted in subframes \#0 and \#4 and in
subframes \#9 not containing NSSS.

\- If frame structure type 2 is used, the UE may assume narrowband
reference signals (NRSs) are transmitted in subframes \#9 and in
subframes \#0 not containing NSSS.

On an NB-IoT carrier for which a UE receives higher-layer parameter
*operationModeInfo* indicating *guardband* or *standalone.*

\- If frame structure type 1 is used, before the UE obtains
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may assume narrowband reference
signals are transmitted in subframes \#0, \#1, \#3, \#4 and in subframes
\#9 not containing NSSS.

\- If frame structure type 2 is used, before the UE obtains
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may assume narrowband reference
signals are transmitted in subframes \#9, and in subframes \#0 not
containing NSSS, and in subframes \#4 if subframes \#4 is configured for
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* transmissions.

\- If frame structure type 1 is used, after the UE obtains
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may assume narrowband reference
signals are transmitted in subframes \#0, \#1, \#3, \#4, subframes \#9
not containing NSSS, and in NB-IoT downlink subframes.

\- If frame structure type 2 is used, after the UE obtains
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may assume narrowband reference
signals are transmitted in subframes \#9, subframes \#0 not containing
NSSS, in subframes \#4 if subframes \#4 is configured for
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* transmissions, and in NB-IoT downlink
subframes.

On an NB-IoT carrier for *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* for which
*sib1-carrierInfo-NB* indicates *non-anchor* for frame structure type 2,
before the UE obtains *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may
assume narrowband reference signals are transmitted in subframes \#0 and
\#5. After the UE obtains *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may
assume narrowband reference signals are transmitted in subframes \#0,
\#5, and in NB-IoT downlink subframes indicated by
*tdd-SI-SubframesBitmap*.

On an NB-IoT carrier for which *DL-CarrierConfigCommon-NB* is present
and no *inbandCarrierInfo* is present.

\- If frame structure type 1 is used and when an NB-IoT UE is configured
by higher layers to decode NPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the P-RNTI and
higher-layer indicates *nrs-NonAnchorConfig* is enabled, the UE first
determines the starting subframe of NPDCCH search space associated with
NRS transmission according to \[10\].

\- If higher-layer *nB* is configured as *fourT*, the UE may assume NRSs
are transmitted in the 10^th^ NB-IoT DL subframe before the determined
starting subframe of NPDCCH search space.

\- If higher-layer *nB* is configured as *twoT*, the UE may assume NRSs
are transmitted in the 9^th^ and 10^th^ NB-IoT DL subframes before the
determined starting subframe of NPDCCH search space.

\- If higher-layer *nB* is configured as *oneT*, the UE may assume NRSs
are transmitted in the 6^th^, 7^th^, 8^th^, 9^th^ and 10^th^ NB-IoT DL
subframes before the determined starting subframe of NPDCCH search
space.

\- For other *nB* values, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in 10
NB-IoT DL subframes before the determined starting subframe of NPDCCH
search space.

\- When an NB-IoT UE is configured by higher layers to decode NPDCCH
with CRC scrambled by the P-RNTI, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted
in the NPDCCH candidate where the UE finds a DCI with CRC scrambled by
the P-RNTI. The UE may also assume NRSs are transmitted in 10 NB-IoT DL
subframes before and in 4 NB-IoT DL subframes after the NPDCCH candidate
where the UE finds a DCI with CRC scrambled by the P-RNTI, where NB-IoT
DL subframes without NRS are not counted. If the DCI with CRC scrambled
by the P-RNTI schedules a NPDSCH, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted
in the NB-IoT DL subframes carrying the NPDSCH as well as in 4 NB-IoT DL
subframes before and after the scheduled NPDSCH, where NB-IoT DL
subframes without NRS are not counted.

\- During the window controlled by higher layers where the UE shall
attempt to decode the NPDCCH with DCI scrambled by RA-RNTI (see \[8\],
clause 5.1.4), the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in the Type-2 CSS
configured by higher layers, as well as in 10 NB-IoT DL subframes before
and in 4 NB-IoT DL subframes after each Type-2 CSS, where NB-IoT DL
subframes without NRS are not counted. If a DCI scrambled by the RA-RNTI
is detected, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in the NPDSCH
scheduled by the DCI scrambled by the RA-RNTI, as well as in 4 NB-IoT DL
subframes before and after the scheduled NPDSCH, where NB-IoT DL
subframes without NRS are not counted. In addition, when the UE attempts
to decode a DCI with CRC scrambled by the RA-RNTI as well as receiving
the NPDSCH scheduled by the DCI scrambled by the RA-RNTI, the UE may
assume NRSs are transmitted in subframes \#0, \#1, \#3, \#4 and \#9.

\- During random access procedure, when an NB-IoT UE is configured by
higher layers to decode NPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the temporary
C-RNTI and/or the C-RNTI, before the DCI scrambled by temporary C-RNTI
and/or C-RNTI is detected, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in the
Type-2 CSS configured by higher layers, as well as in 10 NB-IoT DL
subframes before the start of each Type-2 CSS and in 4 NB-IoT DL
subframes after the end of each Type-2 CSS until the
mac-ContentionResolutionTimer expires, where NB-IoT DL subframes without
NRS are not counted. If a DCI scrambled by the temporary C-RNTI or
C-RNTI is detected, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in the NPDSCH
scheduled by the DCI scrambled by the temporary C-RNTI or C-RNTI as well
as in 4 NB-IoT DL subframes before and after the scheduled NPDSCH, where
NB-IoT DL subframes without NRS are not counted.

\- An NB-IoT UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in NB-IoT DL subframes
that are used for Type1A-NPDCCH common search space, and Type2A-NPDCCH
common search space, as well as in 10 NB-IoT DL subframes prior and in 4
NB-IoT DL subframes after each Type1A-NPDCCH common search space and
Type2A-NPDCCH common search space. A UE may assume NRSs are transmitted
in NB-IoT DL subframes carrying NPDSCH scheduled by DCI CRC scrambled by
G-RNTI or SC-RNTI as well as 4 NB-IoT DL subframes prior and after the
scheduled NPDSCH, where NB-IoT DL subframes without NRS are not counted.

\- In other cases, if frame structure typ1 is used, the UE may assume
NRSs are transmitted in subframes \#0, \#1, \#3, \#4, \#9, and in NB-IoT
downlink subframes and shall not expect NRSs in other downlink
subframes.

On an NB-IoT carrier for which a UE receives higher-layer parameter
*operationModeInfo* indicating *inband-SamePCI* or
*inband-DifferentPCI.*

\- If frame structure type 1 is used, before the UE obtains
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may assume narrowband reference
signals are transmitted in subframes \#0, \#4 and in subframes \#9 not
containing NSSS, and in subframes \#3 which contain
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* when *additionalTransmissionSIB1* is
configured as TRUE.

\- If frame structure type 2 is used, before the UE obtains
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may assume narrowband reference
signals are transmitted in subframes \#9, and in subframes \#0 not
containing NSSS, and in subframes \#4 if subframes \#4 is configured for
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* transmissions.

\- If frame structure type 1 is used, after the UE obtains
SystemInformationBlockType1-NB, the UE may assume narrowband reference
signals are transmitted in subframes \#0, \#4, subframes \#9 not
containing NSSS, subframes \#3 which contain
SystemInformationBlockType1-NB when *additionalTransmissionSIB1* is
configured as TRUE, and in NB-IoT downlink subframes.

\- If frame structure type 2 is used, after the UE obtains
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*, the UE may assume narrowband reference
signals are transmitted in subframes \#9, subframes \#0 not containing
NSSS, in subframes \#4 if subframes \#4 is configured for
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* transmissions, and in NB-IoT downlink
subframes

On an NB-IoT carrier for which *DL-CarrierConfigCommon-NB* is present
and *inbandCarrierInfo* is present:

\- If frame structure type 1 is used, when an NB-IoT UE is configured by
higher layers to decode NPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the P-RNTI and
higher-layer indicates *nrs-NonAnchorConfig* is enabled, the UE first
determines the starting subframe of NPDCCH search space associated with
NRS transmission according to \[10\].

\- If higher-layer *nB* is configured as *fourT*, the UE may assume NRSs
are transmitted in the 10^th^ NB-IoT DL subframe before the determined
starting subframe of NPDCCH search space.

\- If higher-layer *nB* is configured as *twoT*, the UE may assume NRSs
are transmitted in 9^th^ and 10^th^ NB-IoT DL subframes before the
determined starting subframe of NPDCCH search space.

\- If higher-layer *nB* is configured as *oneT*, the UE may assume NRSs
are transmitted in 6^th^, 7^th^, 8^th^, 9^th^ and 10^th^ NB-IoT DL
subframes before the determined starting subframe of NPDCCH search
space.

\- For other *nB* values, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in 10
NB-IoT DL subframes before the determined starting subframe of NPDCCH
search space.

\- When an NB-IoT UE is configured by higher layers to decode NPDCCH
with CRC scrambled by the P-RNTI, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted
in the NPDCCH candidate where the UE finds a DCI with CRC scrambled by
the P-RNTI. The UE may also assume NRSs are transmitted in10 NB-IoT DL
subframes before and in 4 NB-IoT DL subframes after the NPDCCH
candidate, where NB-IoT DL subframes without NRS are not counted. If the
DCI with CRC scrambled by the P-RNTI schedules a NPDSCH, the UE may
assume NRSs are transmitted in the NB-IoT DL subframes carrying the
NPDSCH as well as 4 NB-IoT DL subframes before and after the scheduled
NPDSCH, where NB-IoT DL subframes without NRS are not counted.

\- During the window controlled by higher layers where the UE shall
attempt to decode the NPDCCH with DCI scrambled by RA-RNTI (see \[8\],
clause 5.1.4), the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in the Type-2 CSS
configured by higher layers, as well as in 10 NB-IoT DL subframes before
and in 4 NB-IoT DL subframes after each Type-2 CSS, where NB-IoT DL
subframes without NRS are not counted. If a DCI scrambled by the RA-RNTI
is detected, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in the NPDSCH
scheduled by the DCI scrambled by the RA-RNTI, as well as in 4 NB-IoT DL
subframes before and after the scheduled NPDSCH, where NB-IoT DL
subframes without NRS are not counted. In addition, when the UE attempts
to decode a DCI with CRC scrambled by the RA-RNTI as well as receiving
the NPDSCH scheduled by the DCI scrambled by the RA-RNTI, the UE may
assume NRSs are transmitted in subframes \#0, \#4 and \#9.

\- During random access procedure, when an NB-IoT UE is configured by
higher layers to decode NPDCCH with CRC scrambled by the temporary
C-RNTI and/or the C-RNTI, before the DCI scrambled by temporary C-RNTI
and/or C-RNTI, is detected, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in
the Type-2 CSS configured by higher layers, as well as in 10 NB-IoT DL
subframes before the start of each Type-2 CSS and in 4 NB-IoT DL
subframes after the end of each Type-2 CSS until the
mac-ContentionResolutionTimer expires, where NB-IoT DL subframes without
NRS are not counted. If a DCI scrambled by the temporary C-RNTI or
C-RNTI is detected, the UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in the NPDSCH
scheduled by the DCI scrambled by the temporary C-RNTI or C-RNTI as well
as in 4 NB-IoT DL subframes before and after the scheduled NPDSCH, where
NB-IoT DL subframes without NRS are not counted.

\- An NB-IoT UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in NB-IoT DL subframes
that are used for Type1A-NPDCCH common search space, and Type2A-NPDCCH
common search space, as well as in 10 NB-IoT DL subframes prior and in 4
NB-IoT DL subframes after each Type1A-NPDCCH common search space and
Type2A-NPDCCH common search space, where NB-IoT DL subframes without NRS
are not counted. A UE may assume NRSs are transmitted in NB-IoT DL
subframes carrying NPDSCH scheduled by DCI CRC scrambled by G-RNTI or
SC-RNTI as well as in 4 NB-IoT DL subframes prior and after the
scheduled NPDSCH, where NB-IoT DL subframes without NRS are not counted.

\- In other cases, if frame structure type 1 is used, the UE may assume
NRSs are transmitted in subframes \#0, \#4, \#9, and in NB-IoT downlink
subframes and shall not expect NRSs in other downlink subframes.

On an NB-IoT carrier for which *DL-CarrierConfigDedicated-NB* is present
and no *inbandCarrierInfo* is present:

\- If frame structure type 1 is used, the UE may assume NRSs are
transmitted in subframes \#0, \#1, \#3, \#4, \#9, and in NB-IoT downlink
subframes and shall not expect NRSs in other downlink subframes.

On an NB-IoT carrier for which *DL-CarrierConfigDedicated-NB* is present
and *inbandCarrierInfo* is present:

\- If frame structure type 1 is used, the UE may assume NRSs are
transmitted in subframes \#0, \#4, \#9, and in NB-IoT downlink subframes
and shall not expect NRSs in other downlink subframes.

An NB-IoT UE may assume NRSs are not transmitted in subframes that are
configured by higher layer parameter *nprsBitmap* for narrowband
positioning reference signal transmission.

#### 10.2.6.1 Sequence generation

The narrowband reference sequence shall be initialised according to
clause 6.10.1.1 where is replaced with .

#### 10.2.6.2 Mapping to resource elements

Narrowband reference signals are transmitted on one or two antenna ports
.

If the higher layer indicates UE may assume that is equal to , UE may
assume

\- the number of antenna ports for the cell-specific reference signals
as defined in clause 6.10.1 is the same as for the narrowband reference
signals,

\- the antenna ports for cell-specific reference signals {0, 1} are
equivalent to antenna ports for narrowband reference signals {2000,
2001}, respectively, and

\- the cell-specific reference signals are available in all subframes
where the narrowband reference signals are available.

If the higher layer does not indicate UE may assume that is equal to ,
UE may assume

\- the number of antenna port for the cell-specific reference signals as
defined in clause 6.10.1 is obtained from the higher layer parameter
*eutra-NumCRS-Ports*,

\- the cell-specific reference signals are available in all subframes
where the narrowband reference signals are available, and

the cell-specific frequency shift for cell-specific reference signals as
defined in clause 6.10.1.2 is given by .

The reference signal sequence shall be mapped to complex-valued
modulation symbols used as reference symbols for antenna port in slot
according to

where

When frame structure type 2 is used, the following values of $l$ apply
for the generation of NRSs in special subframes

\-
$l = \ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 5,\ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 4\ $in
each slot for special subframe configurations {3, 4, 8}

\-
$l = \ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 5,\ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 4\ $in
the first slot for special subframe configurations {9, 10}

\-
$l = \ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 2,\ N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 1\ $in
the first slot for special subframe configurations {1, 2, 6, 7}.

The variables $\nu$ and define the position in the frequency domain for
the different reference signals where $\nu$ is given by

The cell-specific frequency shift is given by .

Resource elements used for transmission of narrowband reference signals
on any of the antenna ports in a slot shall not be used for any
transmission on any other antenna port in the same slot and set to zero.

Narrowband reference signals shall not be transmitted in subframes
containing NPSS or NSSS.

For frame structure type 2, narrowband reference signals shall not be
transmitted in special subframe for configurations 0 and 5.

Figure 10.2.6.2-1 illustrates the resource elements used for reference
signal transmission according to the above definition. The notation is
used to denote a resource element used for reference signal transmission
on antenna port.

Figure 10.2.6.2-1. Mapping of downlink narrowband reference signals
(normal cyclic prefix)

### 10.2.6A Narrowband positioning reference signal (NPRS)

Narrowband positioning reference signals (NPRSs) shall only be
transmitted in resource blocks in NB-IoT carriers configured for NPRS
transmission. In a subframe configured for NPRS transmission, the
starting positions of the OFDM symbols configured for NPRS transmission
shall be identical to those in a subframe in which all OFDM symbols have
the same cyclic prefix length as the OFDM symbols configured for NPRS
transmission. NPRS are defined for and normal CP only.

NPRSs are transmitted on antenna port 2006.

#### 10.2.6A.1 Sequence generation

The NPRS sequence is defined by

where is the slot number within a radio frame, is the OFDM symbol number
within the slot. The pseudo-random sequence is defined in clause 7.2.
The pseudo-random sequence generator shall be initialised with

at the start of each OFDM symbol where equals unless configured by
higher layers and where

#### 10.2.6A.2 Mapping to resource elements

For an NB-IoT carrier which is configured for NPRS transmission, the
reference signal sequence shall be mapped to complex-valued modulation
symbols used as reference signal for antenna port in slot according to,
for Type 1 NPRS:

or for Type 2 NPRS:

$a_{k,l}^{(p)} = r_{l,n_{s}}\left( \left( m' + 2(n_{f}\ mod\ 64)\  \right)mod\ 220 \right)$

according to higher layer configuration, where

\- when the higher layer parameter *operationModeInfoNPRS* for the
configured NB-IoT carrier is set to in-band

where is signalled by higher layers *nprs-SequenceInfo*, and if the
higher layer parameter *nprs-SequenceInfo* indicates is odd, and if the
higher layer parameter *nprs-SequenceInfo* indicates is even.

\- when the higher layer parameter *operationModeInfoNPRS* for the
configured NB-IoT carrier is set to standalone or guard-band

and where . If is not configured by higher layers, . The number of PBCH
antenna ports is signalled by higher layers.

If higher layer parameter *nprsBitmap* is not configured, resource
elements in OFDM symbols 5 and 6 in each slot shall not be used for
transmission of NPRS. If the configured periodicity of Type 1 NPRS is
equal to that of Type 2 NPRS, the UE is not expected to be configured
with overlapped resource elements between Type 1 NPRS and Type 2 NPRS.
Otherwise, a resource element configured for Type 1 NPRS shall not be
used for Type 2 NPRS.

Figure 10.2.6A.2-1: Mapping of NPRS (*operationModeInfoNPRS* is set to
in-band, *nprsBitmap* configured)

Figure 10.2.6A.2-2: Mapping of NPRS (*operationModeInfoNPRS* is set to
standalone or guard-band, nprsBitmap configured)

#### 10.2.6A.3 NPRS subframe configuration

On a NB-IoT DL carrier configured for NPRS transmission, an NB-IoT UE
can assume NPRSs are transmitted in DL subframes configured by all
higher layer parameters *nprsBitmap,* the NB-IoT carrier-specific
subframe configuration period the NB-IoT-carrier-specific starting
subframe offset and the number of consecutive downlink subframes where
NPRS shall be transmitted. If frame structure type 2 is used, the UE
shall not assume NPRSs are transmitted in special subframes.

\- If , and are not configured for an NB-IoT downlink carrier configured
for NPRS transmission, an NB-IoT UE shall assume NPRSs are transmitted
in downlink subframes configured by higher layer parameter *nprsBitmap.*

\- If *nprsBitmap* is not configured for an NB-IoT downlink carrier
configured for NPRS transmission, an NB-IoT UE shall assume NPRSs are
transmitted in downlink subframes configured by the higher layer
parameters , and *.*

\- If the higher layer parameter *operationModeInfoNPRS* for the
configured NB-IoT carrier is set to in-band, the higher layer parameters
*nprsBitmap* shall be configured.

\- If , and are configured, the NPRS instances in the first subframe of
the downlink subframes, shall satisfy .

The NPRSs shall not be mapped to resource elements allocated to resource
blocks of NPBCH, NPSS, NSSS, or *SystemInformationBlock-Type1-NB*
regardless of their antenna port .

### 10.2.6B Narrowband wake up signal (NWUS)

#### 10.2.6B.1 Sequence generation

The NWUS sequence $w(m)$ in subframe $x = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,\ M - 1$ is
defined by

$w\left( m \right) = \theta_{n_{\text{f}},\text{n}_{\text{s}}}\left( m' \right) \bullet e^{- \frac{\text{jπun}\left( n + 1 \right)}{131}}e^{\frac{j2\pi gm}{132}}$

$m = 0,\ 1,\ldots,\ 131$

$m^{'} = m + 132x$

$n = m\ \text{mod}\ 132$

$\theta_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( m' \right) = \left\{ \begin{matrix}
\begin{matrix}
1,\text{\ if}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m' \right) = 0\ \text{and}\text{\ \ }c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m' + 1 \right) = 0 \\
 - 1,\text{\ if}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m' \right) = 0\ \text{and}\text{\ \ }c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m' + 1 \right) = 1 \\
\end{matrix} \\
\begin{matrix}
j,\text{\ if}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m' \right) = 1\ \text{and}\text{\ \ }c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m' + 1 \right) = 0 \\
 - j,\text{\ if}\ c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m' \right) = 1\ \text{and}\text{\ \ }c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( 2m' + 1 \right) = 1 \\
\end{matrix} \\
\end{matrix} \right.\ $

$u = \left( N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{Ncell}}\text{mod}\ 126 \right) + 3$

where $M$ is the actual duration of NWUS as defined in \[4\]. For a UE
not configured with group NWUS, $g = 0$. For a UE configured with group
NWUS, $g = 14\left( N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}} + 1 \right)$ for
$0 \leq N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}} \leq 7$, where
$N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}}$ is determined by the UE group to which
the UE is associated as determined by higher layers \[10\]. In a
resource that is not shared with non-group NWUS, the common NWUS
sequence shall be determined by $\ g = 126$. In a resource that is
shared with non-group NWUS, the common NWUS sequence is determined by
higher layers \[9\].

The scrambling sequence
$c_{n_{\text{f}},n_{\text{s}}}\left( i \right),\ i = 0,\ 1,\ \ldots,\ 2 \bullet 132M - 1$
is given by clause 7.2, and shall be initialized at the start of the
NWUS with

$c_{\text{init}\text{\_}\text{WUS}} = {(N}_{\text{ID}}^{\text{Ncell}} + 1)\left( \left( {10n}_{\text{f}\text{\_}\text{start}\text{\_}\text{PO}} + \left\lfloor \frac{n_{\text{s}\text{\_}\text{start}\text{\_}\text{PO}}}{2} \right\rfloor \right)\text{mod\ }2048 + 1 \right)2^{9} + N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{Ncell}} + N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}} \bullet 2^{29}$

where $n_{\text{f\_start\_PO}}$ *is the first frame of the first PO to
which the NWUS is associated,* $n_{\text{s\_start\_PO}}$ is the first
slot of the first PO to which the NWUS is associated and
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ indicates the group NWUS resource to
which the UE is associated. For a UE not configured with group NWUS,
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}} = 0$, whereas for a UE configured with
group NWUS, $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ is determined by higher
layers \[10\].

#### 10.2.6B.2 Mapping to resource elements

The same antenna port shall be used for all symbols of the NWUS within a
subframe. The UE shall not assume that the NWUS is transmitted on the
same antenna port as any of the downlink reference signals or
synchronization signals. If only one NRS port is configured by the eNB,
the UE may assume the transmission of all NWUS subframes is using the
same antenna port; otherwise, the UE may assume the same antenna port is
used for NWUS transmission in DL subframes *w*0+2*n* and *w*0+2*n*+1,
where w0 is the first DL subframe of the NWUS transmission as specified
in \[4\], and *n*=0,1,....

The NWUS sequence is mapped to the set of subframes in the actual NWUS
duration as defined in \[4\], where in a subframe \#4 in which
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* is transmitted or a subframe in which
an SI message is transmitted, the subframe is counted in the NWUS
mapping but not used for transmission of NWUS.On an NB-IoT carrier for
which a UE receives higher-layer parameter *operationModeInfo*
indicating *inband-SamePCI*, *inband-DifferentPCI, guardband* or
*standalone* or on an NB-IoT carrier for which
*DL-CarrierConfigCommon-NB* is present, the NWUS sequence
$w\left( m \right)$ shall be mapped to resource elements $(k,l)$ in
sequence, starting with $w(0)$ in increasing order of first the index
$k = 0,1,\ldots,N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}} - 1,\ $ over the 12 assigned
subcarriers and then the index
$l = 3,\ 4,\ \ldots,\ 2N_{\text{symb}}^{\text{DL}} - 1$ in each subframe
in which NWUS is transmitted.

Additionally, on an NB-IoT carrier for which a UE receives higher-layer
parameter *operationModeInfo* indicating *guardband* or *standalone,* or
on an NB-IoT carrier for which *DL-CarrierConfigCommon-NB* is present
and no *inbandCarrierInfo* is present*,* the resource mapping for the
first three OFDM symbols in the subframe is performed as follows:

\- The resource element (k,7) is mapped to resource element (k,0) of
every index k over 12 assigned subcarriers

\- The resource element (k,8) is mapped to resource element (k,1) of
every index k over 12 assigned subcarriers

\- The resource element (k,9) is mapped to resource element (k,2) of
every index k over 12 assigned subcarriers

A resource element $(k,l)$ overlapping with resource elements where
cell-specific reference signals according to clause 6.10 are transmitted
or NRSs according to clause 10.2.6 are transmitted shall not be used for
NWUS transmission but is counted in the mapping process.

### 10.2.7 Synchronization signals

There are 504 unique physical-layer cell identities indicated by the
narrowband secondary synchronization signal.

#### 10.2.7.1 Narrowband primary synchronization signal (NPSS)

##### 10.2.7.1.1 Sequence generation

The sequence used for the narrowband primary synchronization signal is
generated from a frequency-domain Zadoff-Chu sequence according to

where the Zadoff-Chu root sequence index and for different symbol
indices is given by Table 10.2.7.1.1-1.

Table 10.2.7.1.1-1: Definition of .

  Cyclic prefix length                                              
  ---------------------- --- --- --- --- ---- ---- --- --- --- ---- ---
  Normal                 1   1   1   1   -1   -1   1   1   1   -1   1

##### 10.2.7.1.2 Mapping to resource elements

The same antenna port shall be used for all symbols of the narrowband
primary synchronization signal within a subframe.

UE shall not assume that the narrowband primary synchronization signal
is transmitted on the same antenna port as any of the downlink reference
signals. The UE shall not assume that the transmissions of the
narrowband primary synchronization signal in a given subframe use the
same antenna port, or ports, as the narrowband primary synchronization
signal in any other subframe.

The sequences shall be mapped to resource elements in increasing order
of first the index and then the index in subframe 5 in every radio
frame. For resource elements overlapping with resource elements where
cell-specific reference signals according to clause 6.10 are
transmitted, the corresponding sequence element is not used for the NPSS
but counted in the mapping process.

#### 10.2.7.2 Narrowband secondary synchronization signal (NSSS)

##### 10.2.7.2.1 Sequence generation

The sequence used for the narrowband secondary synchronization signal is
generated from a frequency-domain Zadoff-Chu sequence according to

where

The binary sequence is given by Table 10.2.7.2.1-1. The cyclic shift in
frame number is given by

.

Table 10.2.7.2.1-1: Definition of .

  --- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0   \[1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1\]
  1   \[1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1\]
  2   \[1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1\]
  3   \[1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1\]
  --- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### 10.2.7.2.2 Mapping to resource elements

The same antenna port shall be used for all symbols of the narrowband
secondary synchronization signal within a subframe.

The UE shall not assume that the narrowband secondary synchronization
signal is transmitted on the same antenna port as any of the downlink
reference signals. The UE shall not assume that the transmissions of the
narrowband secondary synchronization signal in a given subframe use the
same antenna port, or ports, as the narrowband secondary synchronization
signal in any other subframe.

If indicated by higher layer, a UE may assume different precoders are
applied for NSSS transmission in a number of consecutive NSSS occasions
signalled by higher layer.

The sequence shall be mapped to resource elements in sequence starting
with in increasing order of first the index over the 12 assigned
subcarriers and then the index over the assigned last symbols of
subframe 9 for frame structure type 1 or subframe 0 for frame structure
type 2 in radio frames fulfilling , where is given by Table
10.2.7.2.2-1.

Table 10.2.7.2.2-1: NSSS number of symbols

  Cyclic prefix length   
  ---------------------- ----
  Normal                 11

For resource elements overlapping with resource elements where
cell-specific reference signals according to clause 6.10 are
transmitted, the corresponding sequence element is not used for the NSSS
but counted in the mapping process.

### 10.2.8 OFDM baseband signal generation

For an NB-IoT carrier

\- for which the higher layer parameter *operationModeInfo* indicates
\'*inband-DifferentPCI* \' and for all NB-IoT downlink physical channels
and signals except NPRS,

\- for which the higher layer parameter *operationModeInfo* indicates
\'*Guardband* \' or \'*Standalone* \',

\- for an NB-IoT carrier for which the higher layer parameter
*CarrierConfigDedicated-NB* or *DL-CarrierConfigCommon-NB* is present
and no *inbandCarrierInfo* is present, or

\- for an NB-IoT carrier for which the higher layer parameters
*CarrierConfigDedicated-NB* or *DL-CarrierConfigCommon-NB* is present
and *inbandCarrierInfo* is present and the higher layers do not indicate
is the same as and for all NB-IoT downlink physical channels and signals
except NPRS,

the time-continuous signal on antenna port in OFDM symbol in a downlink
slot is defined by

for where , $N = 2048$, and is the content of resource element on
antenna port .

Otherwise, the time-continuous signal on antenna port in OFDM symbol ,
where is the OFDM symbol index from the start of the last even-numbered
subframe, is defined by

for where and, if resource element is used for Narrowband IoT except for
NPRS, and 0 otherwise including NPRS. The quantity $f_{\text{NB-IoT}}$
is the frequency location of the center of the Narrowband IoT PRB minus
the frequency location of the center of the LTE signal.

Only normal CP is supported for Narrowband IoT downlink in this release
of the specification.

### 10.2.9 Modulation and upconversion

Modulation and upconversion to the carrier frequency of the
complex-valued OFDM baseband signal for each antenna port is shown in
Figure 6.13-1. The filtering required prior to transmission is defined
by the requirements in 3GPP TS 36.104 \[6\].

########  Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                                                       **Old**   **New**
  2006-09-24           \-           \-             \-                 Draft version created                                                                                                                                     \-        0.0.0
  2006-10-09           \-           \-             \-                 Updated skeleton                                                                                                                                          0.0.0     0.0.1
  2006-10-13           \-           \-             \-                 Endorsed by RAN1                                                                                                                                          0.0.1     0.1.0
  2006-10-23           \-           \-             \-                 Inclusion of decision from RAN1\#46bis                                                                                                                    0.1.0     0.1.1
  2006-11-06           \-           \-             \-                 Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                0.1.1     0.1.2
  2006-11-09           \-           \-             \-                 Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                0.1.2     0.1.3
  2006-11-10           \-           \-             \-                 Endorsed by RAN1\#47                                                                                                                                      0.1.3     0.2.0
  2006-11-27           \-           \-             \-                 Editor \'s version, including decisions from RAN1\#47                                                                                                     0.2.0     0.2.1
  2006-12-14           \-           \-             \-                 Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                0.2.1     0.2.2
  2007-01-15           \-           \-             \-                 Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                0.2.2     0.2.3
  2007-01-19           \-           \-             \-                 Endorsed by RAN1\#47bis                                                                                                                                   0.2.3     0.3.0
  2007-02-01           \-           \-             \-                 Editor \'s version, including decisions from RAN1\#47bis                                                                                                  0.3.0     0.3.1
  2007-02-12           \-           \-             \-                 Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                0.3.1     0.3.2
  2007-02-16           \-           \-             \-                 Endorsed by RAN1\#48                                                                                                                                      0.3.2     0.4.0
  2007-02-16           \-           \-             \-                 Editor \'s version, including decisions from RAN1\#48                                                                                                     0.4.0     0.4.1
  2007-02-21           \-           \-             \-                 Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                0.4.1     0.4.2
  2007-03-03           RP\_35       RP-070169                         For information at RAN\#35                                                                                                                                0.4.2     1.0.0
  2007-04-25           \-           \-             \-                 Editor \'s version, including decisions from RAN1\#48bis and RAN1 TDD Ad Hoc                                                                              1.0.0     1.0.1
  2007-05-03           \-           \-             \-       \-        Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                1.0.1     1.0.2
  2007-05-08           \-           \-             \-       \-        Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                1.0.2     1.0.3
  2007-05-11           \-           \-             \-       \-        Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                1.0.3     1.0.4
  2007-05-11           \-           \-             \-       \-        Endorsed by RAN1\#49                                                                                                                                      1.0.4     1.1.0
  2007-05-15           \-           \-             \-       \-        Editor \'s version, including decisions from RAN1\#49                                                                                                     1.1.0     1.1.1
  2007-06-05           \-           \-             \-       \-        Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                1.1.1     1.1.2
  2007-06-25           \-           \-             \-       \-        Endorsed by RAN1\#49bis                                                                                                                                   1.1.2     1.2.0
  2007-07-10           \-           \-             \-       \-        Editor \'s version, including decisions from RAN1\#49bis                                                                                                  1.2.0     1.2.1
  2007-08-10           \-           \-             \-       \-        Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                1.2.1     1.2.2
  2007-08-20           \-           \-             \-       \-        Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                1.2.2     1.2.3
  2007-08-24           \-           \-             \-       \-        Endorsed by RAN1\#50                                                                                                                                      1.2.3     1.3.0
  2007-08-27           \-           \-             \-       \-        Editor \'s version, including decisions from RAN1\#50                                                                                                     1.3.0     1.3.1
  2007-09-05           \-           \-             \-       \-        Updated editor \'s version                                                                                                                                1.3.1     1.3.2
  2007-09-08           RP\_37       RP-070729      \-       \-        For approval at RAN\#37                                                                                                                                   1.3.2     2.0.0
  12/09/07             RP\_37       RP-070729                         Approved version                                                                                                                                          2.0.0     8.0.0
  28/11/07             RP\_38       RP-070949      0001     \-        Introduction of optimized FS2 for TDD                                                                                                                     8.0.0     8.1.0
  28/11/07             RP\_38       RP-070949      0002     \-        Introduction of scrambling sequences, uplink reference signal sequences, secondary synchronization sequences and control channel processing               8.0.0     8.1.0
  05/03/08             RP\_39       RP-080219      0003     1         Update of uplink reference-signal hopping, downlink reference signals, scrambling sequences, DwPTS/UpPTS lengths for TDD and control channel processing   8.1.0     8.2.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0004     \-        Correction of the number of subcarriers in PUSCH transform precoding                                                                                      8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0005     \-        Correction of PHICH mapping                                                                                                                               8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0006     \-        Correction of PUCCH resource index for PUCCH format 2                                                                                                     8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0007     3         Correction of the predefined hopping pattern for PUSCH                                                                                                    8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0008     \-        Non-binary hashing functions                                                                                                                              8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0009     1         PUCCH format 1                                                                                                                                            8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0010     1         CR on Uplink DM RS hopping                                                                                                                                8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0012     1         Correction to limitation of constellation size of ACK transmission in PUSCH                                                                               8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0015     1         PHICH mapping for one and two antenna ports in extended CP                                                                                                8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0016     1         Correction of PUCCH in absent of mixed format                                                                                                             8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0017     \-        Specification of CCE size and PHICH resource indication                                                                                                   8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0018     3         Correction of the description of frame structure type 2                                                                                                   8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0019     \-        On Delta\^pucch\_shift correction                                                                                                                         8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0021     \-        Corrections to Secondary Synchronization Signal Mapping                                                                                                   8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0022     \-        Downlink VRB mapping to PRB for distributed transmission                                                                                                  8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0023     \-        Clarification of modulation symbols to REs mapping for DVRB                                                                                               8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0024     1         Consideration on the scrambling of PDSCH                                                                                                                  8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0025     \-        Corrections to Initialization of DL RS Scrambling                                                                                                         8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0026     1         CR on Downlink RS                                                                                                                                         8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0027     \-        CR on Uplink RS                                                                                                                                           8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0028     1         Fixed timing advance offset for LTE TDD and half-duplex FDD                                                                                               8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0029     1         Timing of random access preamble format 4                                                                                                                 8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0030     1         Uplink sounding RS bandwidth configuration                                                                                                                8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0031     \-        Use of common RS when UE-specific RS are configured                                                                                                       8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0032     1         Uplink RS Updates                                                                                                                                         8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0033     \-        Orthogonal cover sequence for shortened PUCCH format 1a and 1b                                                                                            8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0034     \-        Clarification of PDCCH mapping                                                                                                                            8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0035     \-        TDD PRACH time/frequency mapping                                                                                                                          8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0036     \-        Cell Specific Uplink Sounding RS Subframe Configuration                                                                                                   8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0038     \-        PDCCH length for carriers with mixed MBSFN and Unicast Traffic                                                                                            8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0040     \-        Correction to the scrambling sequence generation for PUCCH, PCFICH, PHICH, MBSFN RS and UE specific RS                                                    8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0041     \-        PDCCH coverage in narrow bandwidths                                                                                                                       8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0042     \-        Closed-Loop and Open-Loop Spatial Multiplexing                                                                                                            8.2.0     8.3.0
  28/05/08             RP\_40       RP-080432      0043     \-        Removal of small-delay CDD                                                                                                                                8.2.0     8.3.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      48       1         Frequency Shifting of UE-specific RS                                                                                                                      8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      49       1         Correction of PHICH to RE mapping in extended CP subframe                                                                                                 8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      50       \-        Corrections to for handling remaining Res                                                                                                                 8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      51       \-        PRACH configuration for frame structure type 1                                                                                                            8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      52       2         Correction of PUCCH index generation formula                                                                                                              8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      53       \-        Orthogonal cover sequence for shortened PUCCH format 1a and 1b                                                                                            8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      54       \-        Correction of mapping of ACK/NAK to binary bit values                                                                                                     8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      56       2         Remaining issues on SRS hopping                                                                                                                           8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      57       1         Correction of n\_cs(n\_s) and OC/CS remapping for PUCCH formats 1/1a/1b and 2/2a/2b                                                                       8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      59       \-        Corrections to Rank information scrambling in Uplink Shared Channel                                                                                       8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      60       \-        Definition on the slot number for frame structure type 2                                                                                                  8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      61       \-        Correction of the Npucch sequence upper limit for the formats 1/1a/1b                                                                                     8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      62       1         Clarifications for DMRS parameters                                                                                                                        8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      63       \-        Correction of n\_prs                                                                                                                                      8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      64       1         Introducing missing L1 parameters to 36.211                                                                                                               8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      65       3         Clarification on reception of synchronization signals                                                                                                     8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      66       \-        Correction to the downlink/uplink timing                                                                                                                  8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      67       \-        ACK/NACK Scrambling scheme on PUCCH                                                                                                                       8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      68       \-        DCI format1C                                                                                                                                              8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      69       \-        Refinement for REG Definition for n = 4                                                                                                                   8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      71       \-        Correcting Ncs value for PRACH preamble format 0-3                                                                                                        8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      73       \-        Correction of the half duplex timing advance offset value                                                                                                 8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      74       \-        Correction to Precoding for Transmit Diversity                                                                                                            8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      75       \-        Clarification on number of OFDM symbols used for PDCCH                                                                                                    8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      77       \-        Number of antenna ports for PDSCH                                                                                                                         8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      78       \-        Correction to Type 2 PUSCH predetermined hopping for Nsb=1 operation                                                                                      8.3.0     8.4.0
  09/09/08             RP\_41       RP-080668      79       \-        PRACH frequency location                                                                                                                                  8.3.0     8.4.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      70       1         Correction for the definition of UE-specific reference signals                                                                                            8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      72       2         Corrections to precoding for large delay CDD                                                                                                              8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      80       \-        Correction to the definition of nbar\_oc for extended CP                                                                                                  8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      81       1         Specification of reserved REs not used for RS                                                                                                             8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      82       2         Clarification of the random access preamble transmission timing                                                                                           8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      83       1         Indexing of PRACH resources within the radio frame                                                                                                        8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      84       6         Alignment of RAN1/RAN2 specification                                                                                                                      8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      86       \-        Clarification on scrambling of ACK/NAK bits for PUCCH format 2a/2b                                                                                        8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      87       \-        Correction of introduction of shortened SR                                                                                                                8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      88       \-        Corrections to 36.211                                                                                                                                     8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      89       \-        Clarification on PUSCH DM RS Cyclic Shift Hopping                                                                                                         8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      92       1         Correction to the uplink DM RS assignment                                                                                                                 8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      93       \-        Clarify the RNTI used in scrambling sequence initialization                                                                                               8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      94       1         On linkage Among UL Power Control Parameters                                                                                                              8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      95       \-        Clarification on PUSCH pre-determined hopping pattern                                                                                                     8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      96       \-        Clarification of SRS sequence-group and base sequence number                                                                                              8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      97       1         SRS subframe configuration                                                                                                                                8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      98       \-        Remaining SRS details for TDD                                                                                                                             8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      99       \-        Clarifying UL VRB Allocation                                                                                                                              8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      100      \-        Clarification on PUCCH resource hopping                                                                                                                   8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      101      \-        Correction for definition of Qm and a pseudo code syntax error in Scrambling.                                                                             8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      105      1         Remaining Issues on SRS of TDD                                                                                                                            8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      106      \-        Correction of reference to RAN4 specification of supported uplink bandwidth                                                                               8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      107      \-        General corrections to SRS                                                                                                                                8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      109      2         Correction to PCFICH specification                                                                                                                        8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      110      1         Correction to Layer Mapping for Transmit Diversity with Four Antenna Ports                                                                                8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      111      \-        Correction of the mapping of cyclic shift filed in DCI format 0 to the dynamic cyclic shift offset                                                        8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      112      \-        DRS collision handling                                                                                                                                    8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      113      \-        Clarification to enable reuse of non-active PUCCH CQI RBs for PUSCH                                                                                       8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      114      1         PUSCH Mirror Hopping operation                                                                                                                            8.4.0     8.5.0
  03/12/08             RP\_42       RP-081074      108      1         Extended and normal cyclic prefix in DL and UL for LTE TDD                                                                                                8.4.0     8.5.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      115      1         Alignment of PRACH configuration index for FS type 1 and type 2                                                                                           8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      118      1         Clarification for DRS Collision handling                                                                                                                  8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      121      1         Removing inverse modulo operation                                                                                                                         8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      123      1         Clarification on the use of preamble format 4                                                                                                             8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      124      \-        Clarification of RNTI used in scrambling sequence                                                                                                         8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      125      1         Clarifying PDCCH RE mapping                                                                                                                               8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      126      \-        Correction of preamble format 4 timing                                                                                                                    8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      127      2         Corrections to SRS                                                                                                                                        8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      128      2         Clarification of PDSCH Mapping to Resource Elements                                                                                                       8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      129      1         Alignment with correct ASN1 parameter names                                                                                                               8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      130      \-        Correction to PUCCH format 1 mapping to physical resources                                                                                                8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      132      \-        Correction to type-2 PUSCH hopping                                                                                                                        8.5.0     8.6.0
  04/03/09             RP\_43       RP-090234      134      \-        Alignment of SRS configuration                                                                                                                            8.5.0     8.6.0
  27/05/09             RP\_44       RP-090527      135      \-        Correction on UE behavior for PRACH 20ms periodicity                                                                                                      8.6.0     8.7.0
  15/09/09             RP\_45       RP-090888      137      1         Clarification on DMRS sequence for PUSCH                                                                                                                  8.7.0     8.8.0
  15/09/09             RP\_45       RP-090888      138      1         Correction to PHICH resource mapping for TDD and to PHICH scrambling                                                                                      8.7.0     8.8.0
  01/12/09             RP\_46       RP-091168      142      \-        Clarification of the transmit condition for UE specific reference signals                                                                                 8.8.0     8.9.0
  01/12/09             RP\_46       RP-091172      139      2         Introduction of LTE positioning                                                                                                                           8.9.0     9.0.0
  01/12/09             RP\_46       RP-091177      140      3         Editorial corrections to 36.211                                                                                                                           8.9.0     9.0.0
  01/12/09             RP\_46       RP-091257      141      1         Introduction of enhanced dual layer transmission                                                                                                          8.9.0     9.0.0
  16/03/10             RP\_47       RP-100209      144      1         Removal of square brackets on positioning subframe periodicities                                                                                          9.0.0     9.1.0
  16/03/10             RP\_47       RP-100209      145      \-        Clarification of the CP length of empty OFDM symbols in PRS subframes                                                                                     9.0.0     9.1.0
  16/03/10             RP\_47       RP-100210      146      \-        Clarification of MBSFN subframe definition                                                                                                                9.0.0     9.1.0
  07/12/10             RP\_50       RP-101320      148      \-        Introduction of Rel-10 LTE-Advanced features in 36.211                                                                                                    9.1.0     10.0.0
  15/03/11             RP\_51       RP-110254      149      1         Correction on UE behavior for PRACH preamble format 4                                                                                                     10.0.0    10.1.0
  15/03/11             RP\_51       RP-110256      150      \-        Corrections to Rel-10 LTE-Advanced features in 36.211                                                                                                     10.0.0    10.1.0
  01/06/11             RP\_52       RP-110818      153      2         PUSCH interaction with periodic SRS                                                                                                                       10.1.0    10.2.0
  01/06/11             RP\_52       RP-110819      154      1         Correction on describing PUCCH format 3                                                                                                                   10.1.0    10.2.0
  01/06/11             RP\_52       RP-110821      155      3         Correction on codebooks for CSI-RS based feedback for up to 4 CSI-RS ports.                                                                               10.1.0    10.2.0
  01/06/11             RP\_52       RP-110821      156      \-        Correction on overlapping non-zero-power and zero-power CSI-RS configurations                                                                             10.1.0    10.2.0
  01/06/11             RP\_52       RP-110821      157      \-        Correction on CSI-RS configuration                                                                                                                        10.1.0    10.2.0
  01/06/11             RP\_52       RP-110821      158      \-        PDSCH transmission in MBSFN subframes                                                                                                                     10.1.0    10.2.0
  01/06/11             RP\_52       RP-110823      159      \-        Correction on implicit derivation of transmission comb per antenna port for SRS                                                                           10.1.0    10.2.0
  01/06/11             RP\_52       RP-110823      160      \-        Uplink DMRS sequence in RACH procedure                                                                                                                    10.1.0    10.2.0
  15/09/11             RP\_53       RP-111229      162      \-        Corrections on DMRS for Extended CP                                                                                                                       10.2.0    10.3.0
  15/09/11             RP\_53       RP-111228      163      \-        Clarification of applicability of precoding power scaling factors for PDSCH                                                                               10.2.0    10.3.0
  15/09/11             RP\_53       RP-111228      164      \-        Correction to modulation and upconversion on PRACH                                                                                                        10.2.0    10.3.0
  15/09/11             RP\_53       RP-111229      165      \-        Clarification on cyclic prefix of PDSCH in MBSFN subframes                                                                                                10.2.0    10.3.0
  15/09/11             RP\_53       RP-111229      166      3         Corrections on indication in scrambling identity field in DCI format 2B and 2C                                                                            10.2.0    10.3.0
  05/12/11             RP\_54       RP-111668      167      \-        A correction to PDSCH precoding for CQI calculation                                                                                                       10.3.0    10.4.0
  05/12/11             RP\_54       RP-111668      168      \-        Correction to figure of CSI-RS pattern in extended-CP subframe                                                                                            10.3.0    10.4.0
  13/06/12             RP\_56       RP-120736      169      \-        Correction to resource mapping for PDSCH                                                                                                                  10.4.0    10.5.0
  13/06/12             RP\_56       RP-120739      171      \-        Correction for DMRS group hopping and sequence hopping                                                                                                    10.4.0    10.5.0
  13/06/12             RP\_56       RP-120738      172      \-        Correction to assumed CSI-RS transmissions in subframes used for paging                                                                                   10.4.0    10.5.0
  04/09/12             RP\_57       RP-121274      170      4         Introduction of an additional special subframe configuration                                                                                              10.5.0    11.0.0
  04/09/12             RP\_57       RP-121272      173      \-        Inclusion of Rel-11 features                                                                                                                              10.5.0    11.0.0
  04/12/12             RP\_58       RP-121839      175      \-        Correction to assumed CSI-RS transmissions in secondary cells                                                                                             11.0.0    11.1.0
  04/12/12             RP\_58       RP-121846      176      \-        Correction to assumed CSI-RS transmissions in secondary cells                                                                                             11.0.0    11.1.0
  26/02/13             RP\_59       RP-130254      178      \-        Clarification of CSI RS mapping to resource elements                                                                                                      11.1.0    11.2.0
  26/02/13             RP\_59       RP-130254      180      \-        Correction to CSI Reference Signals                                                                                                                       11.1.0    11.2.0
  26/02/13             RP\_59       RP-130255      181      \-        Additional clarifications/corrections for introducing Rel-11 features                                                                                     11.1.0    11.2.0
  11/06/13             RP\_60       RP-130752      182      \-        Correction to EPDCCH PRB pair indication                                                                                                                  11.2.0    11.3.0
  11/06/13             RP\_60       RP-130752      183      \-        CR on collision between EPDCCH and PSS/SSS/PBCH                                                                                                           11.2.0    11.3.0
  03/09/13                                                            MCC clean-up                                                                                                                                              11.3.0    11.4.0
  03/09/13             RP\_60       RP-131250      185      \-        Correction to QCL behaviour on CRS                                                                                                                        11.3.0    11.4.0
  03/12/13             RP\_62       RP-131894      186      \-        Correction on the derivation of the non-MBSFN region by PCFICH                                                                                            11.4.0    11.5.0
  03/12/13             RP\_62       RP-131896      184      3         Introduction of Rel 12 feature for Downlink MIMO Enhancement                                                                                              11.5.0    12.0.0
  03/03/14             RP\_63       RP-140286      187      \-        On PMCH starting symbol in an MBSFN subframe                                                                                                              12.0.0    12.1.0
  10/06/14             RP\_64       RP-140858      189      \-        CR on antenna port definitions                                                                                                                            12.1.0    12.2.0
  10/06/14             RP\_64       RP-140858      190      1         Clarification of downlink subframes                                                                                                                       12.1.0    12.2.0
  10/06/14             RP\_64       RP-140862      191      \-        Inclusion of eIMTA, TDD-FDD CA, and coverage enhancements                                                                                                 12.1.0    12.2.0
  10/09/14             RP\_65       RP-141485      192      \-        Inclusion of low-cost MTC and 256QAM                                                                                                                      12.2.0    12.3.0
  10/09/14             RP\_65       RP-141477      194      \-        CR on port 5 UE-specific reference signal when PDSCH is overlapped with EPDCCH                                                                            12.2.0    12.3.0
  08/12/14             RP\_66       RP-142098      195      3         Clarification of PUSCH rate matching with SRS                                                                                                             12.3.0    12.4.0
  08/12/14             RP\_66       RP-142106      197      4         Inclusion of small-cell enhancements                                                                                                                      12.3.0    12.4.0
  09/03/15             RP\_67       RP-150366      196      7         Inclusion of ProSe                                                                                                                                        12.4.0    12.5.0
  09/03/15             RP\_67       RP-150364      198      \-        Correction on 256QAM applicability to PMCH                                                                                                                12.4.0    12.5.0
  09/03/15             RP\_67       RP-150364      199      \-        Correction of discovery signal transmission                                                                                                               12.4.0    12.5.0
  15/06/15             RP\_68       RP-150935      201      \-        Alignment of ProSe parameters                                                                                                                             12.5.0    12.6.0
  14/09/15             RP\_69       RP-151465      203      \-        Clarification on SRS BW configuration                                                                                                                     12.6.0    12.7.0
  07/12/15             RP\_70       RP-152036      209      1         Modify max TA for dual connectivity                                                                                                                       12.7.0    12.8.0
  07/12/15             RP\_70       RP-152025      206      2         Introduction of EB/FD-MIMO                                                                                                                                12.8.0    13.0.0
  07/12/15             RP\_70       RP-152027      208      1         Introduction of Rel-13 eCA                                                                                                                                12.8.0    13.0.0
  07/12/15             RP\_70       RP-152125      204      2         eD2D CR for 36.211                                                                                                                                        12.8.0    13.0.0
  07/12/15             RP\_70       RP-152258      205      4         Introduction of LAA                                                                                                                                       12.8.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                          **New version**
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160359   210      \-        F         Alignment eD2D CR for 36.211                                                                                                 13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160367   212      \-        F         Clarification on PDSCH collision with PSS/SSS/PBCH                                                                           13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160357   213      \-        F         Correction on support of CA with up to 32 CCs                                                                                13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160357   214      \-        F         Correction on PUCCH format 4 and 5                                                                                           13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160360   217      \-        F         Correction on DRS subframe in 36.211                                                                                         13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160360   218      \-        F         Correction on EPDCCH start symbol in LAA                                                                                     13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160360   219      \-        F         Correction to MBSFN subframe configuration                                                                                   13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160358   220      \-        F         CR on CSI-RS configuration for more than eight antenna ports in 36.211                                                       13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160358   221      \-        F         CR on mismatch between 36.211 and 36.331                                                                                     13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160358   222      \-        F         Clarification on additional SC-FDMA symbols in UpPTS for SRS                                                                 13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160358   223      \-        F         Correction on Precoding and definition of DMRS ports                                                                         13.1.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71       RP-160361   207      9         B         Introduction of LC/CE MTC                                                                                                    13.1.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161063   216      2         F         CR on CSI-RS transmission in DwPTS                                                                                           13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161067   224      8         B         Introduction of NB-IoT                                                                                                       13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   229      2         F         Collision between PSS/SSS/PBCH and MPDCCH/PDSCH for MTC                                                                      13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   230      \-        F         DMRS initialization of CSS for MTC                                                                                           13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   231      \-        F         Missing words in PRACH starting subframe paragraph for MTC                                                                   13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161065   232      \-        F         Correction to EPDCCH procedures for LAA FS 3                                                                                 13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161063   233      \-        F         Clarification on PDSCH mapping to resource elements                                                                          13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161063   234      \-        F         CR on CSI-RS description in TS 36.211                                                                                        13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161065   235      \-        F         Corrections on the support of ending partial subframe in LAA                                                                 13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161063   236      \-        F         Clarification of CSI-RS on extended CP                                                                                       13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161063   237      \-        F         Correction on description about UpPTS length for preamble format 4 for PRACH                                                 13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   238      \-        F         Correction to TS 36.211 for eMTC                                                                                             13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   239      \-        F         Narrow band hopping                                                                                                          13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   240      1         F         CR on MPDCCH format for Rmax=1 and 2/4 PRBs                                                                                  13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   241      1         F         Correction on RE mapping in MBSFN subframe for BL/CE UEs in CEModeB                                                          13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161063   242      \-        F         Correction on the description about DMRS                                                                                     13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   243      \-        F         CR for TS36.211 related to 2+4 PRB set                                                                                       13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161065   244      \-        F         CR on UE assumptions on number of CRS ports in DRS                                                                           13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   245      \-        F         Some corrections for eMTC                                                                                                    13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   247      \-        F         Clarification of MPDCCH over empty CRS tones in PBCH repetition                                                              13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   248      \-        F         Scrambling sequence initialization                                                                                           13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   249      \-        F         On MPDCCH AL for 8 EREGs per ECCE in TS 36.211                                                                               13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   250      \-        F         Overriding of valid-invalid subframes for R=1                                                                                13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   251      \-        F         Scrambling Sequence for paging MPDCCH and PDSCH                                                                              13.2.0
  2016-06              RAN\#72       RP-161066   252      \-        F         Scrambling sequence initialization for PDSCH                                                                                 13.2.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   253      \-        F         Correction on DMRS for NB-IoT in TS 36.211                                                                                   13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   254      1         F         Correction on NPRACH in TS 36.211                                                                                            13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   255      \-        F         Correction on SC-FDMA signal generation for NB-IoT in TS 36.211                                                              13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   256      \-        F         Corrections to RRC parameter names for NB-IoT in TS 36.211                                                                   13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   259      \-        F         MPDCCH search-space with Temporary C-RNTI                                                                                    13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   260      \-        F         Correction on NPBCH in TS 36.211                                                                                             13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   261      1         F         Correction on UL collisions in TS 36.211                                                                                     13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   262      1         F         Correction on NPSS mapping in TS 36.211                                                                                      13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   263      1         F         Corrections on the presence of NRS for standalone and guard band operation mode in TS 36.211                                 13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161561   264      \-        F         Correction on the determination of EPDCCH starting position                                                                  13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   265      \-        F         Corrections on NPDCCH scrambling in TS 36.211                                                                                13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   272      1         F         Frequency hopping for SI and paging messages for BL/CE UE                                                                    13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   275      \-        F         Scrambling of DL DMRS for BL/CE UE                                                                                           13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   276      \-        F         Enable cross-subframe channel estimation for BL/CE UE                                                                        13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   278      \-        F         Frequency hopping interval for MPDCCH during random access for BL/CE UE                                                      13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161565   279      \-        F         CR on the correction from SC-FDFMA to SC-FDMA                                                                                13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161561   280      \-        F         Correction for PHICH resource reservation on the LAA cell in 36.211 for Rel-13 LAA                                           13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   281      \-        F         Correction on MPDCCH transmission without repetition in special subframes                                                    13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   282      1         F         Introduction of a reserved range of NPRACH sub-carriers for contention based access                                          13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   283      \-        F         Clarification of valid subframe in eMTC                                                                                      13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   284      \-        F         Correction of NB-IoT antenna port mapping                                                                                    13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   285      \-        F         Clarification on PRACH system frame number                                                                                   13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161562   286      \-        F         PUCCH retuning with puncturing for BL/CE UE                                                                                  13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161563   287      1         F         Phase difference between NRS and CRS                                                                                         13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161825   288      1         B         Continuous uplink transmission in eMTC                                                                                       13.3.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161571   266      2         B         Introduction of eLAA                                                                                                         14.0.0
  2016-09              RAN\#73       RP-161570   267      2         B         Introduction of V2V support                                                                                                  14.0.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162368   0297     \-        F         CR on start timing of PUSCH                                                                                                  14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162358   0298     \-        A         Correction to DMRS for MPDCCH associated with P-RNTI -- Rel-14                                                               14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162359   0300     \-        A         Clarification on NPRACH and NPUSCH collision                                                                                 14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162358   0302     1         A         Clarification on i\_0 value                                                                                                  14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162358   0304     \-        A         Correction of PRACH starting subframes for eMTC                                                                              14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162359   0306     \-        A         Correction of NPRACH frequency hopping                                                                                       14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162358   0307     \-        A         Correction on MPDCCH transmission without repetition                                                                         14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162358   0308     \-        A         Correction of typos due to wrong implementation of CR0283 \"Clarification of valid subframe in eMTC \"                       14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162356   0309     \-        A         Correction on NZP CSI-RS aggregation for Class A                                                                             14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162367   0310     2         B         Introduction of performance enhancements for high speed scenario                                                             14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162450   0311     \-        B         Introduction of further indoor positioning enhancements                                                                      14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162365   0312     1         B         Introduction of Multiuser Superposition Transmission (MUST)                                                                  14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162359   0316     1         A         Correction on NPDSCH Mapping to resource elements in 36.211                                                                  14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162358   0320     \-        A         UL gap applicability for CE Mode A                                                                                           14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162355   0322     \-        A         CR on pseudo-random sequence generator for PUCCH format 4 and PUCCH format 5 and sequence group hopping for PUCCH format 4   14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162359   0324     \-        A         Clarification on vShift value for CRS                                                                                        14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162359   0326     \-        A         Correction to OFDM baseband signal generation of NB-IoT                                                                      14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162358   0327     \-        A         Mapping of MPDCCH and PDSCH                                                                                                  14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162364   0328     \-        B         Introduction of SRS switching between LTE component carriers                                                                 14.1.0
  2016-12              RAN\#74       RP-162366   0329     \-        F         Corrections for V2V                                                                                                          14.1.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170605   0330     1         B         Introduction of Uplink Capacity Enhancements for LTE                                                                         14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170608   0331     1         B         Introduction of eMBMS enhancements for LTE                                                                                   14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170623   0332     2         B         Introduction of Further Enhanced MTC for LTE                                                                                 14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170624   0333     3         B         Introduction of NB-IoT enhancements                                                                                          14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170622   0334     2         B         Introduction of V2X                                                                                                          14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170607   0335     2         B         Introduction of eFD-MIMO                                                                                                     14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170625   0336     2         B         Introduction of Voice and Video enhancement for LTE                                                                          14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170610   0338     2         A         Correction on the scrambling of NPDSCH carrying the BCCH                                                                     14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170609   0340     \-        A         Frequency hopping in eMTC                                                                                                    14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170609   0342     \-        A         Retuning gap with shortened PUCCH format for BL/CE UE                                                                        14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170609   0344     \-        A         Parameters for number of PUCCH repetitions for Msg4 for BL/CE UE -- Superseded by CR0332r2                                   14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170609   0346     \-        A         Clarification on repetition and starting subframe of the MPDCCH search space                                                 14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170615   0347     \-        F         CR for SRS switching in 36.211                                                                                               14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170617   0348     \-        F         CR on the new restricted sets of cyclic shifts for PRACH for high speed in 36.211                                            14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170612   0352     \-        A         Correction on single layer precoding for EPCCH                                                                               14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170610   0354     \-        A         NPBCH symbol rotation for interference randomization in NB-IoT                                                               14.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75       RP-170617   0355     \-        F         Correction to PRACH resource configuration for high speed scenario in TS 36.211                                              14.2.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171205   0356     \-        F         Correction on baseband generation for paging/random access non-anchor carriers                                               14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171204   0357     \-        F         Correction of reference to PRS occasion group for OTDOA enhancements                                                         14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171204   0358     \-        F         Center frequency for PUSCH allocation in larger bandwidth mode in FeMTC                                                      14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171205   0359     \-        F         Clarification of NRS presence                                                                                                14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171194   0360     \-        F         Clarification and Correction on IFDMA UL-DMRS for eFD-MIMO                                                                   14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171199   0363     \-        A         Clarification on PDSCH collision with PSS/SSS in TDD                                                                         14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171195   0364     \-        F         Clarification on CDM-8 pattern for 24-ports CSI-RS in DwPTS                                                                  14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171192   0365     \-        F         Correction on PUSCH symbol locations in UpPTS for UL capacity enhancement in TS 36.211                                       14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171196   0366     \-        A         CR on correction of PRACH transmission across SFN boundary                                                                   14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171204   0367     \-        F         Correction on resource mapping in case of retuning in 36.211                                                                 14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171197   0369     1         A         Correction on NB-IoT DMRS definition in 36.211                                                                               14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171197   0371     1         A         Correction on NB-IoT SC-FDMA baseband signal generation in 36.211                                                            14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171197   0373     \-        A         Clarification on the definition of the nprach-NumCBRA-StartSubcarriers                                                       14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171204   0374     \-        F         Parallel reception of MPDCCH and PDSCH for BL/CE UE                                                                          14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171194   0375     \-        F         CR for precoding for spatial multiplexing using antenna ports with UE-specific reference signals in 36.211                   14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171194   0376     \-        F         Correction to CSI-RS configuration                                                                                           14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171196   0378     \-        A         Clarification of frequency hopping for \"PDCCH order \" initiated PUSCH                                                      14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171196   0380     \-        A         Correction on determination of number of repetitions PUCCH format 1                                                          14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171204   0381     \-        F         Correction on PRS hopping                                                                                                    14.3.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76       RP-171205   0383     \-        F         NRS presence assumptions on unicast non-anchor carriers                                                                      14.3.0
  2017-09              RAN\#77       RP-171646   0384     \-        F         Correction of RRC parameter name for non-anchor carriers                                                                     14.4.0
  2017-09              RAN\#77       RP-171638   0386     1         F         Corrections on CDM8 sequence for 24 and 32 CSI-RS ports and CDM4 sequence                                                    14.4.0
  2017-09              RAN\#77       RP-171645   0387     \-        F         PRS and PDSCH/MPDCCH collision                                                                                               14.4.0
  2017-09              RAN\#77       RP-171640   0389     \-        A         NPUSCH transmission during NPRACH gaps                                                                                       14.4.0
  2017-09              RAN\#77       RP-171639   0391     \-        A         MPDCCH Frequency hopping for RRC connected contention-based RACH                                                             14.4.0
  2017-09              RAN\#77       RP-171646   0392     1         F         Interference randomization for NPDCCH and NPDSCH                                                                             14.4.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172688   0395     \-        A         Clarification on DMRS ports associated with PDSCH                                                                            14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172680   0396     \-        A         Correction on MPDCCH frequency hopping                                                                                       14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172685   0397     \-        F         SRS to SRS retuning in UpPTS                                                                                                 14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172679   0398     \-        F         Correction on power boosting for UL DMRS                                                                                     14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172680   0402     \-        A         Correction on scrambling sequence identity for 2+4 PRBs sets in MPDCCH                                                       14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172680   0404     \-        A         Correction on resource elements reserved for CRS for PBCH with repetition                                                    14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172677   0405     \-        F         Introduction of new UE behavior for special subframe configuration 10                                                        14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172691   0406     \-        F         Correction for PUSCH puncturing in SRS carrier switching                                                                     14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172679   0407     \-        F         Correction on the scale factor for semi-OL rank-1                                                                            14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172680   0409     \-        A         UE uplink gap capability signaling description                                                                               14.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172693   0385     4         B         Introduction of shortened processing time and shortened TTI into 36.211, s03-05                                              15.0.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172693   0399     2         B         Introduction of shortened processing time and shortened TTI into 36.211, s06-08                                              15.0.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180195   0400     1         B         Introduction of feCoMP into 36.211                                                                                           15.1.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180191   0416     \-        A         Clarification on the NPRACH starting subcarrier partitioning for multi-tone Msg3 transmission                                15.1.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180189   0418     \-        A         Correction on CDM-8 Sequence Mapping for 24 and 32 ports                                                                     15.1.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180190   0419     \-        A         Clarification on PUSCH and PDSCH scrambling for BL/CE UEs                                                                    15.1.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180190   0420     \-        A         Clarification on the hopping parameter for PUSCH transmission corresponding to the RAR grant                                 15.1.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180199   0422     \-        A         Interference randomization in CSS                                                                                            15.1.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180187   0424     \-        A         Correction on DM-RS in DwPTS in special subframe configuration 10                                                            15.1.0
  2018-03              RAN\#79       RP-180191   0427     \-        A         Clarification on NPDCCH RE mapping                                                                                           15.1.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181163   0430     1         A         Correction on DMRS scrambling ID for semi-open loop transmission                                                             15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181173   0431     \-        B         Introduction of enhancements for high capacity stationary wireless link and introduction of 1024 QAM for LTE                 15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181169   0434     \-        A         Correction on PUSCH hopping parameter for eVoLTE                                                                             15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181181   0437     \-        A         Collision with NPRACH in non-anchor carriers                                                                                 15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181181   0439     \-        A         On NRS presence in non-anchor carriers                                                                                       15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181170   0440     1         F         Corrections to sTTI and SPT implementation                                                                                   15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181180   0441     1         B         Introduction of enhancements to operation in unlicensed spectrum                                                             15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181167   0444     1         A         Clarification on CSI-RS resource aggregation                                                                                 15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181174   0447     \-        B         Introduction of Even Further Enhanced MTC for LTE                                                                            15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181166   0448     \-        B         Introduction Rel-15 Further NB-IoT enhancements                                                                              15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181168   0449     \-        F         Correction on layer-to-port mapping for feCoMP                                                                               15.2.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-181177   0450     \-        B         Introduction of HRLLC into 36.211                                                                                            15.2.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181792   0451     \-        B         Introduction of eV2X                                                                                                         15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181796   0453     \-        A         Correction for interference randomization for NB-IoT                                                                         15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181796   0455     \-        A         Correction to NPRS mapping                                                                                                   15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181795   0456     \-        F         Correction on DL CP extension for FeLAA in 36.211                                                                            15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181795   0457     \-        F         Correction to determination of ending symbol for AUL transmissions                                                           15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181780   0459     \-        A         Rate matching for aperiodic CSI-RS                                                                                           15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181787   0460     \-        F         Corrections to sTTI and SPT                                                                                                  15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181791   0461     \-        F         Corrections to eMTC                                                                                                          15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181783   0462     \-        F         Corrections to NB-IoT                                                                                                        15.3.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181793   0463     \-        F         Corrections to HRLLC                                                                                                         15.3.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182518   0465     \-        A         Correction on aperiodic CSI-RS resource mapping in 36.211                                                                    15.4.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182518   0467     \-        A         Correction to non-precoded NZP CSI-RS resource configurations                                                                15.4.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182524   0468     1         F         Corrections to LTE-MTC                                                                                                       15.4.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182519   0469     1         F         Corrections to NB-IoT                                                                                                        15.4.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182518   0471     \-        A         Clarification on cyclic shift field mapping table for DMRS bit field in DCI format 0/4                                       15.4.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182526   0472     \-        F         Correction on rate-matching around SPDCCH resources for PDSCH repetition                                                     15.4.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182522   0473     \-        F         Correction on the number of CCEs for DMRS-based SPDCCH                                                                       15.4.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182522   0474     \-        F         Correction of SPDCCH rate-matching description                                                                               15.4.0
  2019-03              RAN\#83       RP-190434   0476     \-        F         Correction of higher layer signalling for special subframe configuration 10                                                  15.5.0
  2019-03              RAN\#83       RP-190437   0477     \-        F         DMRS sequence index for PUSCH sub-PRB allocation for LTE-MTC                                                                 15.5.0
  2019-03              RAN\#83       RP-190436   0478     \-        F         CR on DMRS mapping for SPDCCH                                                                                                15.5.0
  2019-06              RAN\#84       RP-191269   0479     \-        F         Correction on NPRACH baseband signal generation                                                                              15.6.0
  2019-06              RAN\#84       RP-191270   0480     \-        F         Handling of invalid PRB for frequency hopping of BL/CE UEs with PUSCH CE Mode A and flexible starting PRB                    15.6.0
  2019-06              RAN\#84       RP-191272   0483     \-        A         Correction for PUSCH frequency hopping in eMTC                                                                               15.6.0
  2019-06              RAN\#84       RP-191273   0485     \-        A         Correction for PUSCH frequency hopping in VoLTE enhancements                                                                 15.6.0
  2019-09              RAN\#85       RP-191939   0487     \-        F         Correction for PDSCH starting position in a subframe of FS3                                                                  15.7.0
  2019-09              RAN\#85       RP-191937   0490     \-        A         Clarification on localized MPDCCH DMRS port for 2+4 PRB set                                                                  15.7.0
  2019-09              RAN\#85       RP-191945   0491     \-        F         Correction on higher layer parameter configuring short TTI length in 36.211                                                  15.7.0
  2019-09              RAN\#85       RP-191936   0492     \-        F         Correction on DMRS for NPUSCH Format 2 in TDD NB-IoT                                                                         15.7.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192620   0495     \-        A         Clarification to postponing in subframes that are not BL/CE subframes                                                        15.8.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192618   0497     \-        F         PUSCH frequency hopping configured with CEModeB and flexible starting PRB allocation                                         15.8.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192618   0498     \-        F         Correction of MWUS sequence generation                                                                                       15.8.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192632   0500     \-        A         Correction on interference randomization on non-anchor carrier for NB-IoT                                                    15.8.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192647   0501     \-        B         Introduction of additional MTC enhancements for LTE                                                                          16.0.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192648   0502     \-        B         Introduction of Additional enhancements for NB-IoT                                                                           16.0.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192649   0503     \-        B         Introduction of DL MIMO efficiency enhancements for LTE                                                                      16.0.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192650   0504     \-        B         Introduction of LTE terrestrial broadcast                                                                                    16.0.0
  2020-03              RAN\#87-e     RP-200202   0507     \-        A         Correction on the resource block pair definition for 1.25 kHz subcarrier spacing                                             16.1.0
  2020-03              RAN\#87-e     RP-200178   0509     \-        A         Correction on Rel-15 NWUS/MWUS                                                                                               16.1.0
  2020-03              RAN\#87-e     RP-200196   0510     \-        F         Miscellaneous corrections for Rel-16 LTE-MTC features in 36.211                                                              16.1.0
  2020-03              RAN\#87-e     RP-200197   0511     \-        F         Miscellaneous corrections for Rel-16 NB-IoT features in 36.211                                                               16.1.0
  2020-03              RAN\#87-e     RP-200199   0512     \-        F         Corrections to LTE terrestrial broadcast                                                                                     16.1.0
  2020-03              RAN\#87-e     RP-200198   0513     \-        F         Corrections to DL MIMO efficiency enhancements for LTE                                                                       16.1.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200704   0518     \-        A         Correction on NRS presence in non-anchor carriers for NB-IoT                                                                 16.2.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200681   0519     \-        A         CR on WUS transmission in TDD special subframe                                                                               16.2.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200681   0525     \-        A         CR on clarification of RSS transmission                                                                                      16.2.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200681   0527     \-        A         CR on scrambling initialization for sub-PRB PUSCH                                                                            16.2.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200703   0532     \-        A         Correction on MBSFN region start symbol index of a MBSFN subframe                                                            16.2.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200699   0533     \-        F         Corrections for Rel-16 NB-IoT features in 36.211                                                                             16.2.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200701   0534     1         F         Corrections to LTE terrestrial broadcast                                                                                     16.2.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200698   0535     \-        F         Corrections to Rel-16 LTE-MTC features in 36.211                                                                             16.2.0
  2020-06              RAN\#88-e     RP-200700   0536     1         F         Corrections to DL MIMO efficiency enhancements for LTE                                                                       16.2.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201821   0538     \-        A         Correction on semi-open-loop                                                                                                 16.3.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201818   0539     \-        F         Correction for PBCH repetition                                                                                               16.3.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201818   0540     \-        F         Correction on MBSFN region                                                                                                   16.3.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201816   0541     \-        F         Corrections on NPDSCH/NPDCCH interference randomization                                                                      16.3.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201816   0542     \-        F         Correction on NPDSCH                                                                                                         16.3.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201817   0543     \-        F         Correction on higher layer parameters for additional SRS in 36.211                                                           16.3.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201817   0544     \-        F         Correction on terminology of additional SRS                                                                                  16.3.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201815   0545     \-        F         Multi-TB scheduling and PUR spanning PUSCH transmission in LTE-MTC                                                           16.3.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89-e     RP-201816   0546     \-        F         Correction on terms and higher layer parameters for NB-IoT in 36.211                                                         16.3.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90-e     RP-202394   0547     \-        F         CR on LTE-based 5G Terrestrial Broadcast                                                                                     16.4.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90-e     RP-202394   0548     \-        F         Correction for 0.37kHz SCS                                                                                                   16.4.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90-e     RP-202400   0550     \-        A         Corrections on interference randomization for NB-IoT SPS                                                                     16.4.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90-e     RP-202393   0551     \-        F         Corrections on additional SRS symbols                                                                                        16.4.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90-e     RP-202391   0552     \-        F         Alignment corrections for Rel-16 features                                                                                    16.4.0
  2021-03              RAN\#91-e     RP-210060   0554     \-        A         Correction for support of 1024QAM for PDSCH                                                                                  16.5.0
  2021-06              RAN\#92-e     RP-211241   0555     \-        F         Clarification of PUSCH PRB resources for PUR in LTE-MTC                                                                      16.6.0
  2021-06              RAN\#92-e     RP-211242   0556     \-        F         Correction on DMRS cyclic shift for PUR in NB-IoT                                                                            16.6.0
  2021-06              RAN\#92-e     RP-211246   0557     \-        F         Correction for 0.37kHz SCS                                                                                                   16.6.0
  2021-09              RAN\#93-e     RP-211848   0559     1         F         Correction on PUSCH cyclic shift for eMTC PUR                                                                                16.7.0
  2021-09              RAN\#93-e     RP-211849   0561     \-        A         Clarification on NPUSCH postponement for NB-IoT                                                                              16.7.0
  2023-09              RAN\#101      RP-232454   0572     \-        F         Correction on SRS identity for additional SRS symbols                                                                        16.8.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
