3GPP TS 36.304 V16.8.0 (2023-03)

Technical Specification

3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);\
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode

(Release 16)

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organisational Partners and shall not be implemented.

This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organisational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organisational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> LTE, E-UTRAN, radio, terminal
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 5

1 Scope 6

2 References 6

3 Definitions and abbreviations 8

3.1 Definitions 8

3.2 Symbols 10

3.3 Abbreviations 10

4 General description of Idle mode 11

4.1 Overview 11

4.2 Functional division between AS and NAS in Idle mode 13

4.3 Service types in Idle Mode 15

4.4 NB-IoT functionality in Idle Mode 17

5 Process and procedure descriptions 17

5.1 PLMN selection 17

5.1.1 Void 18

5.1.2 Support for PLMN selection 18

5.1.2.1 General 18

5.1.2.2 E-UTRA and NB-IoT case 18

5.1.2.3 UTRA case 18

5.1.2.4 GSM case 18

5.1.2.5 CDMA2000 case 18

5.1.2.6 NR case 18

5.2 Cell selection and reselection 19

5.2.1 Introduction 19

5.2.2 States and state transitions in Idle Mode 20

5.2.3 Cell Selection process 21

5.2.3.1 Description 21

5.2.3.2 Cell Selection Criterion 22

5.2.3.2a Cell Selection Criterion for NB-IoT 24

5.2.3.3 CSG cells and Hybrid cells in Cell Selection 24

5.2.3.4 GSM case in Cell Selection 24

5.2.3.5 UTRAN case in Cell Selection 25

5.2.3.6 NR case in Cell Selection 25

5.2.4 Cell Reselection evaluation process 25

5.2.4.1 Reselection priorities handling 25

5.2.4.2 Measurement rules for cell re-selection 27

5.2.4.2a Measurement rules for cell re-selection for NB-IoT 28

5.2.4.3 Mobility states of a UE 28

5.2.4.3.1 Scaling rules 29

5.2.4.4 Cells with cell reservations, access restrictions or unsuitable
for normal camping 29

5.2.4.5 E-UTRAN Inter-frequency and inter-RAT Cell Reselection criteria
30

5.2.4.6 Intra-frequency and equal priority inter-frequency Cell
Reselection criteria 31

5.2.4.6a Reselection for enhanced coverage 32

5.2.4.7 Cell reselection parameters in system information broadcasts 32

5.2.4.7.1 Speed dependant reselection parameters 35

5.2.4.8 Cell reselection with CSG cells 36

5.2.4.8.1 Cell reselection from a non-CSG cell to a CSG cell 36

5.2.4.8.2 Cell reselection from a CSG cell 36

5.2.4.9 Cell reselection with Hybrid cells 36

5.2.4.10 E-UTRAN Inter-frequency Redistribution procedure 36

5.2.4.10.1 Redistribution target selection 37

5.2.4.11 Cell reselection or CN type change when storing UE AS context
38

5.2.4.12 Relaxed monitoring 38

5.2.4.12.0 Relaxed monitoring measurement rules 38

5.2.4.12.1 Relaxed monitoring criterion 38

5.2.4.13 Cell reselection or CN type change in RRC\_INACTIVE state 38

5.2.5 Void 38

5.2.6 Camped Normally state 38

5.2.7 Cell Selection at transition to RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE state
39

5.2.7a Cell Selection at transition to RRC\_IDLE state for NB-IoT 39

5.2.8 Any Cell Selection state 39

5.2.8a Any Cell Selection state for NB-IoT 39

5.2.9 Camped on Any Cell state 39

5.3 Cell Reservations and Access Restrictions 40

5.3.1 Cell status and cell reservations 40

5.3.2 Access control 42

5.3.3 Emergency call 43

5.4 Tracking Area registration 43

5.5 Support for manual CSG selection 43

5.5.1 E-UTRA case 43

5.5.2 UTRA case 43

5.6 RAN-assisted WLAN interworking 43

5.6.1 RAN assistance parameter handling in RRC\_IDLE 43

5.6.2 Access network selection and traffic steering rules 43

5.6.3 RAN assistance parameters definition 44

6 Reception of broadcast information 45

6.1 Reception of system information 45

6.2 Reception of MBMS 46

7 Paging 46

7.1 Discontinuous Reception for paging 46

7.2 Subframe Patterns 48

7.3 Paging in extended DRX 49

7.4 Paging with Wake Up Signal 50

7.5 Paging with Group Wake Up Signal 51

7.5.1 General 51

7.5.2 WUS group sets selection 51

7.5.3 WUS group selection 52

7.5.4 WUS Group Alternation 53

7.5.5 WUS Resource Location for BL UEs and UEs in Enhanced coverage 54

7.6 NRS presence on non-anchor paging carrier in NB-IoT 55

8 Logged measurements 56

9 Accessibility measurements 56

10 Mobility History Information 56

11 Sidelink operation 57

11.1 Sidelink communication and V2X sidelink communication and NR
sidelink communication 57

11.2 Sidelink discovery 57

11.3 Sidelink synchronisation 57

11.4 Cell selection and reselection for sidelink 57

11.4.1 Parameters used for cell selection and reselection triggered for
sidelink 58

12\. General description of UE camping on E-UTRA connected to 5GC 58

Annex A (informative): Void 59

Annex B (informative): Example of Hashed ID Calculation using 32-bit FCS
60

Annex C (informative): Change history 61

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the Access Stratum (AS) part of the Idle
Mode procedures applicable to a UE. The non-access stratum (NAS) part of
Idle mode procedures and processes is specified in TS 23.122 \[5\].

The present document specifies the model for the functional division
between the NAS and AS in a UE.

The present document applies to all UEs that support at least E-UTRA,
including multi-RAT UEs as described in 3GPP specifications, in the
following cases:

\- When the UE is camped on an E-UTRA cell;

\- When the UE is searching for a cell to camp on;

NOTE: When the UE is camped on or searching for a cell to camp on
belonging to other RATs, the UE behaviour is described in the
specifications of the other RAT.

The Idle Mode procedures defined in this specification are also
applicable for a UE in RRC\_INACTIVE state unless specified otherwise.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non-specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 25.990: \"Vocabulary for UTRAN\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"E-UTRA and E-UTRAN Overall Description; Stage
2\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA; Radio Resource Control (RRC) - Protocol
Specification\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"NAS functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in
idle mode\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer procedures\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer; Measurements\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\"

\[9\] 3GPP TS 43.022: \"Functions related to Mobile Station in idle mode
and group receive mode\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource
Management\".

\[11\] void

\[12\] void

\[13\] void

\[14\] void

\[15\] void

\[16\] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved
Packet System (EPS); Stage 3\"

\[17\] 3GPP2 C.S0024-C v2.0: \"cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air
Interface Specification\".

\[18\] 3GPP2 C.S0005-F v1.0: \"Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signalling Standard
for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification;
Core Network Protocols; Stage 3\"

\[21\] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement
collection for Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description;
Stage 2\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN) access\".

\[24\] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate
communications with packet data networks and applications\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP
accesses\".

\[26\] IEEE 802.11, Part 11: \"Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC)
and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications, IEEE Std.\".

\[27\] Wi-Fi Alliance Technical Committee, Hotspot 2.0 Technical Task
Group: \"Hotspot 2.0 (Release 2) Technical Specification\".

\[28\] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
via non-3GPP access networks\".

\[29\] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".

\[30\] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"E-UTRA; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".

\[31\] 3GPP TS 24.105: \"Application specific Congestion control for
Data Communication (ACDC) Management Object (MO)\".

\[32\] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber
Identity Module (USIM) application\".

\[33\] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".

\[34\] Void

\[35\] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".

\[36\] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Technical Specification Group Services and
System Aspects; Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".

\[37\] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".

\[38\] 3GPP TS 38.304: \"New Generation Radio Access Network; User
Equipment (UE) procedures in Idle mode and RRC Inactive state\".

\[39\] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage
2\".

\[40\] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS)
to support Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".

\[41\] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that satisfies certain conditions as
specified in 4.3. A UE can always attempt emergency calls on an
acceptable cell, but restriction as in 5.3.3 apply.

**Alternative cell reselection priority:** Cell reselection priority
broadcast in the system information via *altCellReselectionPriority* and
*altCellReselectionSubPriority*.

**CSG Whitelist**: A list provided by NAS containing all the CSG
identities and their associated PLMN IDs of the CSGs to which the
subscriber belongs.

NOTE: This list is known as Allowed CSG List in Rel-8 Access Stratum
specifications.

**Available PLMN(s):** One or more PLMN(s) for which the UE has found at
least one cell and read its PLMN identity(ies).

**Barred Cell**: A cell a UE is not allowed to camp on.

**Camped on a cell:** UE has completed the cell selection/reselection
process and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system information and
(in most cases) paging information.

**Camped on any cell**: UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell irrespective of PLMN
identity.

**Closed Subscriber Group (CSG):** A Closed Subscriber Group identifies
subscribers of an operator who are permitted to access one or more cells
of the PLMN but which have restricted access (CSG cells).

**CN type:** The type of core network connectivity supported by an
E-UTRA cell, either EPC or 5GC.

**Commercial Mobile Alert System:** Public Warning System that delivers
*Warning Notifications* provided by *Warning Notification Providers* to
CMAS capable UEs.

**CSG cell:** A cell broadcasting a CSG indication that is set to TRUE
and a specific CSG identity.

**CSG identity:** An identifier broadcast by a CSG or hybrid cell/cells
and used by the UE to facilitate access for authorised members of the
associated Closed Subscriber Group.

**CSG member cell:** a cell broadcasting the identity of the selected
PLMN, registered PLMN or equivalent PLMN and for which the CSG whitelist
of the UE includes an entry comprising cell\'s CSG ID and the respective
PLMN identity.

**DRX cycle:** Individual time interval between monitoring Paging
Occasion for a specific UE.

**eDRX cycle:** Time interval between the first Paging Occasions
occurring after successive extended DRX periods.

**eCall Only Mode:** A UE configuration option that allows the UE to
attach at EPS and register in IMS to perform only eCall Over IMS, and a
non-emergency IMS call for test and/or terminal reconfiguration
services.

**EHPLMN:** Any of the PLMN entries contained in the Equivalent HPLMN
list TS 23.122 \[5\].

**Equivalent PLMN list:** List of PLMNs considered as equivalent by the
UE for cell selection, cell reselection, and handover according to the
information provided by the NAS.

**EU-Alert:** Public Warning System that delivers Warning Notifications
provided by Warning Notification Providers using the same AS mechanisms
as defined for CMAS.

**Home PLMN:** A PLMN where the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile
Network Code (MNC) of the PLMN identity are the same as the MCC and MNC
of the IMSI.

**HNB Name**: The Home eNodeB Name is a broadcast string in free text
format that provides a human readable name for the Home eNodeB CSG
identity and any broadcasted PLMN identity.

**HSDN cell**: A cell that has higher priority than other cells for cell
reselection for HSDN capable UE in a High-mobility state.

**Hybrid cell:** A cell broadcasting a CSG Indicator that is set to
FALSE and a specific CSG identity.

**Hyper SFN:** Index broadcast in System Information that increments at
every SFN wrap around (i.e every 10.24s).

**Korean Public Alert System (KPAS):** Public Warning System that
delivers Warning Notifications provided by Warning Notification
Providers using the same AS mechanisms as defined for CMAS.

**Location Registration (LR):** UE registers its presence in a
registration area, for instance regularly or when entering a new
tracking area.

**MBMS-dedicated cell**: cell dedicated to MBMS transmission.

**MBMS/****Unicast-mixed cell**: cell supporting both unicast and MBMS
transmissions.

**FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cell**: cell supporting MBMS transmission and
unicast transmission as SCell.

**NB-IoT:** NB-IoT allows access to network services via E-UTRA with a
channel bandwidth limited to 200 kHz.

**NR sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling at least V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.287 \[40\], between two or more nearby
UEs, using NR technology but not traversing any network node.

**Paging Time Window:** The period configured for a UE in extended DRX,
during which the UE monitors Paging Occasions following DRX cycle.

**Power saving mode**: Mode allowing the UE to reduce its power
consumption, as defined in TS 24.301 \[16\], TS 23.401 \[23\], TS 23.682
\[24\].

**Process:** A local action in the UE invoked by a RRC procedure or an
Idle Mode or RRC\_INACTIVE state procedure.

**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access,
for instance E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM, CDMA2000 1xEV-DO (HRPD) or CDMA2000 1x
(1xRTT).

**Registered PLMN:** This is the PLMN on which certain Location
Registration outcomes have occurred TS 23.122 \[5\].

**Registration Area**: (NAS) registration area is an area in which the
UE may roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a
NAS procedure.

**Reserved Cell**: A cell on which camping is not allowed, except for
particular UEs, if so indicated in the system information.

**Restricted Cell**: A cell on which camping is allowed, but access
attempts are disallowed for UEs whose access classes are indicated as
barred.

**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the NAS,
either manually or automatically.

**Serving cell:** The cell on which the UE is camped.

**Sidelink**: UE to UE interface for sidelink communication, V2X
sidelink communication and sidelink discovery. The Sidelink corresponds
to the PC5 interface as defined in TS 23.303 \[29\].

**Sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct
Communication as defined in TS 23.303 \[29\], between two or more nearby
UEs, using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node. The
terminology \"sidelink communication\" without \"V2X\" prefix only
concerns PS unless specifically stated otherwise.

**Sidelink discovery**: AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct Discovery
as defined in TS 23.303 \[29\], using E-UTRA technology but not
traversing any network node.

**Strongest cell:** The cell on a particular carrier that is considered
strongest according to the layer 1 cell search procedure TS 36.213
\[6\], TS 36.214 \[7\].

**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which an UE may camp. For a E-UTRA
cell, the criteria are defined in clause 4.3, for a UTRA cell in TS
25.304\[8\], for a GSM cell in TS 43.022\[9\], and for a NR cell in TS
38.304 \[38\].

**V2X sidelink communication:** AS functionality enabling V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.285 \[36\], between nearby UEs, using
E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node.

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

\<symbol\> \<Explanation\>

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

1xRTT CDMA2000 1x Radio Transmission Technology

AS Access Stratum

AC Access Class (of the USIM)

ACDC Application specific Congestion control for Data Communication

BCCH Broadcast Control Channel

BL Bandwidth reduced Low complexity

BR-BCCH Bandwidth Reduced Broadcast Control Channel

BSS Basic Service Set

CMAS Commercial Mobile Altert System

CSG Closed Subscriber Group

DRX Discontinuous Reception

DL-SCH Downlink Shared Channel

EHPLMN Equivalent Home PLMN

EPC Evolved Packet Core

EPS Evolved Packet System

ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System

E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network

FDD Frequency Division Duplex

GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network

GWUS Group Wake Up Signal

HPLMN Home PLMN

HSDN High Speed Dedicated Network

H-SFN Hyper System Frame Number

HRPD High Rate Packet Data

IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul

IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity

MBMS Multimedia Broadcast-Multicast Service

MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network

MCC Mobile Country Code

MCCH Multicast Control Channel

MDT Minimization of Drive Tests

MM Mobility Management

MNC Mobile Network Code

MPDCCH MTC Physical Downlink Control Channel

MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel

NAS Non-Access Stratum

NB-IoT NarrowBand Internet of Things

NR NR Radio Access

NRS Narrowband Reference Signal

PLMN Public Land Mobile Network

ProSe Proximity-based Services

PSM Power Saving Mode

PTW Paging Time Window

PWS Public Warning System

RAT Radio Access Technology

RNA RAN-based Notification Area

RNAU RAN-based Notification Area Update

RRC Radio Resource Control

SAP Service Access Point

SIBX SystemInformationBlockTypeX

TDD Time Division Duplex

UAC Unified Access Control

UE User Equipment

UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System

USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module

UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network

V2X Vehicle-to-Everything

WUS Wake Up Signal

4 General description of Idle mode
==================================

4.1 Overview
------------

The idle mode tasks can be subdivided into four processes:

\- PLMN selection;

\- Cell selection and reselection;

\- Location registration;

\- Support for manual CSG selection.

The relationship between these processes is illustrated in Figure 4.1-1.

Figure 4.1-1: Overall Idle Mode process

When a UE is switched on, a public land mobile network (PLMN) is
selected by NAS. For the selected PLMN, associated RAT(s) may be set TS
23.122 \[5\]. The NAS shall provide a list of equivalent PLMNs, if
available, that the AS shall use for cell selection and cell
reselection.

With the cell selection, the UE searches for a suitable cell of the
selected PLMN and chooses that cell to provide available services,
further the UE shall tune to its control channel. This choosing is known
as \"camping on the cell\".

For E-UTRA a cell may be associated with more than one CN type (EPC
and/or 5GC) and hence the selected cell can be suitable for more than
one CN type. The CN type(s) for which the selected cell is suitable are
reported to NAS which selects a CN type to be used for camping and for
the NAS registration procedure (see below). Note that CN type selection
is only applicable for UE supporting E-UTRA connected to 5GC.

The UE shall, if necessary, then register its presence, by means of a
NAS registration procedure, in the tracking area of the chosen cell and
as outcome of a successful Location Registration the selected PLMN
becomes the registered PLMN TS 23.122 \[5\].

If the UE finds a more suitable cell, according to the cell reselection
criteria, it reselects onto that cell and camps on it. Similar to cell
selection procedure, if the reselected cell is an E-UTRA cell and the UE
supports E-UTRA connected to 5GC, the CN type(s) for which the cell is
suitable are reported to NAS which selects one of them. If the new cell
does not belong to at least one tracking area to which the UE is
registered, location registration is performed. In RRC\_INACTIVE state,
if the new cell does not belong to the configured RNA, a RNA update
procedure is performed.

If necessary, the UE shall search for higher priority PLMNs at regular
time intervals as described in TS 22.011 \[4\] and search for a suitable
cell if another PLMN has been selected by NAS.

Search of available CSGs may be triggered by NAS to support manual CSG
selection.

If the UE loses coverage of the registered PLMN, either a new PLMN is
selected automatically (automatic mode), or an indication of which PLMNs
are available is given to the user, so that a manual selection can be
made (manual mode).

Registration is not performed by UEs only capable of services that need
no registration.

The UE may perform sidelink communication or V2X sidelink communication
or sidelink discovery or NR sidelink communication while in-coverage or
out-of-coverage for sidelink, as specified in clause 11.

The purpose of camping on a cell in idle mode is fivefold:

a\) It enables the UE to receive system information from the PLMN.

b\) When registered and if the UE wishes to establish an RRC connection,
it can do this by initially accessing the network on the control channel
of the cell on which it is camped.

c\) If the PLMN receives a call for the registered UE, it knows (in most
cases) the set of tracking areas (in RRC\_IDLE state) or RNAs (in
RRC\_INACTIVE state) in which the UE is camped. It can then send a
\"paging\" message for the UE on the control channels of all the cells
in this set of tracking areas. The UE will then receive the paging
message because it is tuned to the control channel of a cell in one of
the registered tracking areas and the UE can respond on that control
channel.

d\) It enables the UE to receive ETWS and CMAS notifications.

e\) It enables the UE to receive MBMS services.

If the UE is unable to find a suitable cell to camp on or if the
location registration failed (except for LR rejected with cause \#12,
cause \#14, cause \#15 or cause \#25, see TS 23.122 \[5\] and TS 24.301
\[16\]), it attempts to camp on a cell irrespective of the PLMN
identity, and enters a \"limited service\" state.

When NAS indicates that PSM starts, the AS configuration (e.g.
priorities provided by dedicated signalling and logged measurements) is
kept, all running timers continue to run but the UE need not perform any
idle mode tasks. If a timer expires while the UE is in PSM it is up to
UE implementation whether it performs the corresponding action
immediately or the latest when PSM ends. When NAS indicates that PSM
ends, the UE shall perform all idle mode tasks.

4.2 Functional division between AS and NAS in Idle mode
-------------------------------------------------------

Table 1 presents the functional division between UE non-access stratum
(NAS) and UE access stratum (AS) in idle mode. The NAS part is specified
in TS 23.122 \[5\] and the AS part in the present document.

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Idle Mode Process    | UE Non-Access        | UE Access Stratum    |
|                      | Stratum              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PLMN Selection       | Maintain a list of   | Search for available |
|                      | PLMNs in priority    | PLMNs.               |
|                      | order according to   |                      |
|                      | TS 23.122 \[5\].     | If associated RAT(s) |
|                      | Select a PLMN using  | is (are) set for the |
|                      | automatic or manual  | PLMN, search in this |
|                      | mode as specified in | (these) RAT(s) and   |
|                      | TS 23.122 \[5\] and  | other RAT(s) for     |
|                      | request AS to select | that PLMN as         |
|                      | a cell belonging to  | specified in TS      |
|                      | this PLMN. For each  | 23.122 \[5\].        |
|                      | PLMN, associated     |                      |
|                      | RAT(s) may be set.   | Perform measurements |
|                      |                      | to support PLMN      |
|                      | Evaluate reports of  | selection.           |
|                      | available PLMNs and, |                      |
|                      | for E-UTRA if the    | Synchronise to a     |
|                      | UEs supports E-UTRA  | broadcast channel to |
|                      | connected to 5GC, CN | identify found PLMNs |
|                      | type(s) from AS for  | (and CN type(s).     |
|                      | PLMN selection.      |                      |
|                      |                      | Report available     |
|                      | Maintain a list of   | PLMNs with           |
|                      | equivalent PLMN      | associated RAT(s)    |
|                      | identities.          | and, for E-UTRA if   |
|                      |                      | the UE supports      |
|                      |                      | E-UTRA connected to  |
|                      |                      | 5GC, CN type(s) to   |
|                      |                      | NAS on request from  |
|                      |                      | NAS or autonomously. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Cell\                | Control cell         | Perform measurements |
| Selection            | selection for        | needed to support    |
|                      | example by           | cell selection.      |
|                      | indicating RAT(s)    |                      |
|                      | associated with the  | Detect and           |
|                      | selected PLMN to be  | synchronise to a     |
|                      | used initially in    | broadcast channel.   |
|                      | the search of a cell | Receive and handle   |
|                      | in the cell          | broadcast            |
|                      | selection. NAS is    | information. Forward |
|                      | also maintaining     | NAS system           |
|                      | lists of forbidden   | information to NAS.  |
|                      | registration areas   |                      |
|                      | and a list of CSG    | Search for a         |
|                      | IDs and their        | suitable cell. The   |
|                      | associated PLMN ID   | cells broadcast one  |
|                      | on which the UE is   | or more \'PLMN       |
|                      | allowed (**CSG       | identity\' in the    |
|                      | whitelist**) and     | system information.  |
|                      | provide these lists  | Respond to NAS       |
|                      | to AS.               | whether such cell is |
|                      |                      | found or not.        |
|                      | NAS may indicate     |                      |
|                      | whether the use of   | If associated RATs   |
|                      | coverage             | is (are) set for the |
|                      | enhancements is not  | PLMN, perform the    |
|                      | authorized for the   | search in this       |
|                      | selected PLMN.       | (these) RAT(s) and   |
|                      |                      | other RATs for that  |
|                      | NAS may indicate     | PLMN as specified in |
|                      | whether the CE mode  | TS 23.122 \[5\].     |
|                      | B is restricted for  |                      |
|                      | the UE supporting CE | If such a cell is    |
|                      | mode B.              | found, the cell is   |
|                      |                      | selected to camp on. |
|                      | For E-UTRA if the UE |                      |
|                      | supports E-UTRA      | For E-UTRA if the UE |
|                      | connected to 5GC,    | supports E-UTRA      |
|                      | NAS indicates the CN | connected to 5GC, AS |
|                      | type to be used for  | reports the CN       |
|                      | the selected cell.   | type(s) for which    |
|                      |                      | the selected cell is |
|                      |                      | suitable to NAS.     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Cell\                | Control cell         | Perform measurements |
| Reselection          | reselection by for   | needed to support    |
|                      | example, maintaining | cell reselection.    |
|                      | lists of forbidden   |                      |
|                      | registration areas.  | Detect and           |
|                      |                      | synchronise to a     |
|                      | Maintain a list of   | broadcast channel.   |
|                      | equivalent PLMN      | Receive and handle   |
|                      | identities and       | broadcast            |
|                      | provide the list to  | information. Forward |
|                      | AS.                  | NAS system           |
|                      |                      | information to NAS.  |
|                      | Maintain a list of   |                      |
|                      | forbidden            | Change cell if a     |
|                      | registration areas   | more suitable cell   |
|                      | and provide the list | is found.            |
|                      | to AS.               |                      |
|                      |                      | For E-UTRA if the UE |
|                      | Maintain a list of   | supports E-UTRA      |
|                      | CSG IDs and their    | connected to 5GC,    |
|                      | associated PLMN ID   | the UE reports the   |
|                      | on which the UE is   | CN type(s) for which |
|                      | allowed (**CSG       | the selected cell is |
|                      | whitelist**) to camp | suitable to NAS.     |
|                      | and provide the list |                      |
|                      | to AS.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For E-UTRA if the UE |                      |
|                      | supports E-UTRA      |                      |
|                      | connected to 5GC,    |                      |
|                      | NAS indicates the CN |                      |
|                      | type to be used for  |                      |
|                      | the selected cell.   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Location             | Register the UE as   | Report registration  |
| registration         | active after power   | area information to  |
|                      | on.                  | NAS.                 |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Register the UE\'s   |                      |
|                      | presence in a        |                      |
|                      | registration area,   |                      |
|                      | for instance         |                      |
|                      | regularly or when    |                      |
|                      | entering a new       |                      |
|                      | tracking area.       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Maintain lists of    |                      |
|                      | forbidden            |                      |
|                      | registration areas.  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Deregister UE when   |                      |
|                      | shutting down.       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Control and restrict |                      |
|                      | location             |                      |
|                      | registration for a   |                      |
|                      | UE in eCall only     |                      |
|                      | mode.                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Support for manual   | Provide request to   | Search for cells     |
| CSG selection        | search for available | with a CSG ID.       |
|                      | CSGs.                |                      |
|                      |                      | Read the HNB name    |
|                      | Evaluate reports of  | from BCCH on SIB9 if |
|                      | available CSGs from  | a cell with a CSG ID |
|                      | AS for CSG           | is found.            |
|                      | selection.           |                      |
|                      |                      | Report CSG ID of the |
|                      | Select a CSG and     | found cell           |
|                      | request AS to select | broadcasting a CSG   |
|                      | a cell belonging to  | ID together with the |
|                      | this CSG.            | HNB name and PLMN(s) |
|                      |                      | to NAS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | On selection of a    |
|                      |                      | CSG by NAS, select   |
|                      |                      | any cell belonging   |
|                      |                      | to the selected CSG  |
|                      |                      | fulfilling the cell  |
|                      |                      | selection criteria   |
|                      |                      | and not barred or    |
|                      |                      | reserved for         |
|                      |                      | operator use for UEs |
|                      |                      | not belonging to AC  |
|                      |                      | 11 or 15 and give an |
|                      |                      | indication to NAS    |
|                      |                      | that access is       |
|                      |                      | possible (for the    |
|                      |                      | registration         |
|                      |                      | procedure).          |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| RAN Notification     | Not applicable       | Register the UE\'s   |
| Area Update          |                      | presence in a        |
|                      |                      | RAN-based            |
|                      |                      | notification area,   |
|                      |                      | periodically or when |
|                      |                      | entering a new       |
|                      |                      | RAN-based            |
|                      |                      | notification area.   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table 4.2-1: Functional division between AS and NAS in idle mode

4.3 Service types in Idle Mode
------------------------------

This clause defines the level of service that may be provided by the
network to a UE in Idle mode.

The action of camping on a cell is necessary to get access to some
services. Three levels of services are defined for UE:

\- Limited service (emergency calls, ETWS and CMAS on an acceptable
cell). It is not applicable to RRC\_INACTIVE state.

\- Normal service (for public use on a suitable cell)

\- Operator service (for operators only on a reserved cell)

Furthermore, the cells are categorised according to which services they
offer:

**acceptable cell:**

An \"acceptable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp to obtain
limited service (originate emergency calls and receive ETWS and CMAS
notifications), and it is not applicable to RRC\_INACTIVE state. Such a
cell shall fulfil the following requirements, which is the minimum set
of requirements to initiate an emergency call and to receive ETWS and
CMAS notification in a E-UTRAN network:

\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;

\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2;

**suitable cell:**

A \"suitable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp on to obtain
normal service. The UE shall have a valid USIM and such a cell shall
fulfil all the following requirements.

\- The cell is part of either:

\- the selected PLMN, or:

\- the registered PLMN, or:

\- a PLMN of the Equivalent PLMN list

\- For a CSG cell, the cell is a CSG member cell for the UE;

According to the latest information provided by NAS:

\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;

\- The cell is part of at least one TA that is not part of the list of
\"forbidden tracking areas for roaming\" TS 22.011 \[4\], which belongs
to a PLMN that fulfils the first bullet above;

\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2;

\- Except for NB-IoT, if the UE supports authorization of coverage
enhancements and upper layers indicated that use of coverage
enhancements is not authorized for the selected PLMN:

\- the cell selection criterion S in normal coverage shall be fulfilled;

\- If the UE supports CE mode B and upper layers indicated that CE mode
B is restricted:

\- the cell selection criterion S in normal coverage based on values
Q~rxlevmin~ and Q~qualmin~ or in enhanced coverage based on values
Q~rxlevmin\_CE~ and Q~qualmin\_CE~ shall be fulfilled.

If more than one PLMN identity is broadcast in the cell, the cell is
considered to be part of all TAs with TAIs constructed from the PLMN
identities and the TAC broadcast in the cell.

**barred cell:**

A cell is barred if it is so indicated in the system information TS
36.331 \[3\].

**reserved cell:**

A cell is reserved if it is so indicated in system information TS 36.331
\[3\].

Following exceptions to these definitions are applicable for UEs:

\- camped on a cell that belongs to a tracking area that is forbidden
for regional provision of service; a cell that belongs to a tracking
area that is forbidden for regional provision service (TS 23.122 \[5\],
TS 24.301 \[16\]) is suitable but provides only limited service.

\- as an outcome of the manual CSG selection procedure the UE is allowed
to access an acceptable cell which fulfils the cell selection criteria
and is not barred or reserved for operator use for UEs not belonging to
AC 11 or 15 and inform NAS that access is possible (for location
registration procedure).

NOTE: UE is not required to support manual search and selection of PLMN
or CSGs while in RRC CONNECTED state. The UE may use local release of
RRC connection to perform manual search if it is not possible to perform
the search while RRC connected.

\- if a UE has an ongoing emergency call, all acceptable cells of that
PLMN are treated as suitable for the duration of the emergency call.

\- if the UE in RRC\_IDLE fulfils the conditions to support sidelink
communication or PS related sidelink discovery in limited service state
as specified in TS 23.303 \[29\], clause 4.5.6, the UE may perform
sidelink communication or PS-related sidelink discovery.

\- if the UE in RRC\_IDLE fulfils the conditions to support V2X sidelink
communication or NR sidelink communication in limited service state as
specified in TS 23.285 \[36\], clause 4.4.8 and TS 23.287 \[40\],
clause, 5.7, the UE may perform V2X sidelink communication or NR
sidelink communication.

For E-UTRA the cell categorization defined above is per CN type. In this
specification, when the term suitable/acceptable cell is used without
specifying the CN type, it means the cell is suitable/acceptable for any
of the CN type(s) supported by the UE.

NOTE: The selected CN Type is not considered during cell selection and
reselection procedure.

4.4 NB-IoT functionality in Idle Mode
-------------------------------------

This specification is applicable to NB-IoT, except for the following
functionality which is not applicable to NB-IoT:

\- Acceptable cell

\- Accessibility measurements

\- Access Control based on ACDC categories

\- Camped on Any cell state

\- CSG, including support for manual CSG selection and CSG or Hybrid
cell related functionality in PLMN selection, or HNB name (SIB9), Cell
selection and Cell reselection.

\- Emergency call

\- E-UTRAN Inter-frequency Redistribution procedure

\- Inter-RAT Cell Selection and Reselection including measurements in
other RATs

\- Logged measurements

\- Mobility History Information

\- Mobility states of a UE

\- Priority based reselection

\- Public warning system including CMAS, ETWS, PWS.

\- RAN-assisted WLAN interworking

\- RRC\_INACTIVE state

\- Sidelink operation

5 Process and procedure descriptions
====================================

5.1 PLMN selection
------------------

In the UE, the AS shall report available PLMNs to the NAS on request
from the NAS or autonomously. For E-UTRA, if UE supports E-UTRA
connected to 5GC, the AS shall also report CN type associated with the
PLMN to NAS.

During PLMN selection, based on the list of PLMN identities in priority
order, the particular PLMN may be selected either automatically or
manually. Each PLMN in the list of PLMN identities is identified by a
\'PLMN identity\'. In the system information on the broadcast channel,
the UE can receive one or multiple \'PLMN identity\' (and, for E-UTRA,
the CN type associated with the PLMN) in a given cell. The result of the
PLMN selection performed by NAS (see TS 23.122 \[5\]) is an identifier
of the selected PLMN.

### 5.1.1 Void

### 5.1.2 Support for PLMN selection

#### 5.1.2.1 General

On request of the NAS the AS shall perform a search for available PLMNs
and report them to NAS.

#### 5.1.2.2 E-UTRA and NB-IoT case

The UE shall scan all RF channels in the E-UTRA bands according to its
capabilities to find available PLMNs. On each carrier, the UE shall
search for the strongest cell and read its system information, in order
to find out which PLMN(s) the cell belongs to. If the UE can read one or
several PLMN identities in the strongest cell, each found PLMN (see the
PLMN reading in TS 36.331 \[3\]) shall be reported to the NAS as a high
quality PLMN (but without the RSRP value), provided that the following
high quality criterion is fulfilled:

1\. For an E-UTRAN and NB-IoT cell, the measured RSRP value shall be
greater than or equal to -110 dBm.

Found PLMNs that do not satisfy the high quality criterion, but for
which the UE has been able to read the PLMN identities are reported to
the NAS together with the RSRP value. The quality measure reported by
the UE to NAS shall be the same for each PLMN found in one cell.

For each found PLMN, if the UE supports E-UTRA connected to 5GC, the
associated CN type(s) shall also be reported to the NAS.

If the cell is barred for connectivity to EPC (as indicated by the
*cellBarred*/cellBarred-CRS flag being set to the value barred, see
clause 5.3.1) a UE supporting E-UTRA connected to 5GC shall only report
the available 5GC PLMNs to NAS.

The search for PLMNs may be stopped on request of the NAS. The UE may
optimise PLMN search by using stored information e.g. carrier
frequencies and optionally also information on cell parameters from
previously received measurement control information elements.

Once the UE has selected a PLMN, the cell selection procedure shall be
performed in order to select a suitable cell of that PLMN to camp on.

If a CSG ID is provided by NAS as part of PLMN selection, the UE shall
search for an acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the provided CSG
ID to camp on. When the UE is no longer camped on a cell with the
provided CSG ID, AS shall inform NAS.

#### 5.1.2.3 UTRA case

Support for PLMN selection in UTRA is described in TS 25.304 \[8\].

#### 5.1.2.4 GSM case

Support for PLMN selection in GERAN is described in TS 43.022 \[9\].

#### 5.1.2.5 CDMA2000 case

For CDMA2000 the network determination for HRPD and 1xRTT is described
in \[17\] and \[18\] respectively.

#### 5.1.2.6 NR case

Support for PLMN selection in NR is described in TS 38.304 \[38\].

5.2 Cell selection and reselection
----------------------------------

### 5.2.1 Introduction

UE shall perform measurements for cell selection and reselection
purposes as specified in TS 36.133 \[10\].

The NAS can control the RAT(s) in which the cell selection should be
performed, for instance by indicating RAT(s) associated with the
selected PLMN, and by maintaining a list of forbidden registration
area(s) and a list of equivalent PLMNs. The UE shall select a suitable
cell based on idle mode measurements and cell selection criteria.

In order to speed up the cell selection process, stored information for
several RATs may be available in the UE.

When camped on a cell, the UE shall regularly search for a better cell
according to the cell reselection criteria. If a better cell is found,
that cell is selected. The change of cell may imply a change of RAT, or
if the current and selected cell are both E-UTRA cells, a change of the
CN type. Details on performance requirements for cell reselection can be
found in TS 36.133 \[10\].

The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in
changes in the received system information relevant for NAS.

For normal service, the UE shall camp on a suitable cell, tune to that
cell\'s control channel(s) so that the UE can:

\- Receive system information from the PLMN; and

\- receive registration area information from the PLMN, e.g., tracking
area information; and

\- receive other AS and NAS Information; and

\- if registered:

\- receive paging and notification messages from the PLMN; and

\- initiate transfer to connected mode.

### 5.2.2 States and state transitions in Idle Mode

Except for NB-IoT, figure 5.2.2-1 shows the states and state transitions
and procedures in RRC\_IDLE. Whenever a new PLMN selection is performed,
it causes an exit to number 1.

Figure 5.2.2-1: RRC\_IDLE Cell Selection and Reselection

For NB-IoT, figure 5.2.2-2 shows the states and state transitions and
procedures in RRC\_IDLE. Whenever a new PLMN selection is performed, it
causes an exit to number 1.

Figure 5.2.2-2: RRC\_IDLE Cell Selection and Reselection for NB-IoT

### 5.2.3 Cell Selection process

#### 5.2.3.1 Description

> The UE shall use one of the following two cell selection procedures:

a\) Initial Cell Selection

This procedure requires no prior knowledge of which RF channels are
E-UTRA or NB-IoT carriers. The UE shall scan all RF channels in the
E-UTRA bands according to its capabilities to find a suitable cell. On
each carrier frequency, the UE need only search for the strongest cell.
Once a suitable cell is found this cell shall be selected.

b\) Stored Information Cell Selection

This procedure requires stored information of carrier frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters, from previously received
measurement control information elements or from previously detected
cells. Once the UE has found a suitable cell the UE shall select it. If
no suitable cell is found the Initial Cell Selection procedure shall be
started.

NOTE 1: Priorities between different frequencies or RATs provided to the
UE by system information or dedicated signalling are not used in the
cell selection process.

NOTE 2: If BL UE, UE in enhanced coverage or NB-IoT UE has been
provisioned with EARFCN, the UE may use this information during Initial
Cell Selection and Stored Information Cell Selection to find a suitable
cell.

#### 5.2.3.2 Cell Selection Criterion

For NB-IoT the cell selection criterion is defined in clause 5.2.3.2a.

If the measurements are performed using RSS as specified in \[10\], the
cell selection criterion S in normal coverage is fulfilled when:

  -------------
  Srxlev \> 0
  -------------

Else, the cell selection criterion S in normal coverage is fulfilled
when:

  ----------------------------
  Srxlev \> 0 AND Squal \> 0
  ----------------------------

where:

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Srxlev = Q~rxlevmeas~ -- (Q~rxlevmin~ + Q~rxlevminoffset~) --        |
| Pcompensation - **Qoffset~temp~**                                    |
|                                                                      |
| Squal = Q~qualmeas~ -- (Q~qualmin~ + Q~qualminoffset~) -             |
| **Qoffset~temp~**                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

where:

+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Srxlev             | Cell selection RX level value (dB)             |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Squal              | Cell selection quality value (dB)              |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| **Qoffset~temp~**  | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as        |
|                    | specified in TS 36.331 \[3\] (dB)              |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~rxlevmeas~       | Measured cell RX level value (RSRP)            |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~qualmeas~        | Measured cell quality value (RSRQ)             |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~rxlevmin~        | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm).   |
|                    | Q~rxlevmin~ is obtained from *q-RxLevMin* in   |
|                    | SIB1, SIB3, SIB5, or NR SIB5.                  |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | When the UE who is camped on a NR cell is      |
|                    | evaluating an E-UTRA cell, if                  |
|                    | Q~rxlevminoffsetcell~ is signalled in NR SIB5  |
|                    | in TS 38.331 \[37\] for the E-UTRA cell, this  |
|                    | cell specific offset is added to *q-RxLevMin*  |
|                    | to achieve the required minimum RX level in    |
|                    | the E-UTRA cell.                               |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~qualmin~         | Minimum required quality level in the cell     |
|                    | (dB)                                           |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | When the UE who is camped on a NR cell is      |
|                    | evaluating an E-UTRA cell, if                  |
|                    | Q~qualminoffsetcell~ is signalled in NR SIB5   |
|                    | in TS 38.331 \[37\] for the E-UTRA cell, this  |
|                    | cell specific offset is added to achieve the   |
|                    | required minimum quality level in the E-UTRA   |
|                    | cell.                                          |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~rxlevminoffset~  | Offset to the signalled Q~rxlevmin~ taken into |
|                    | account in the Srxlev evaluation as a result   |
|                    | of a periodic search for a higher priority     |
|                    | PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN TS       |
|                    | 23.122 \[5\]                                   |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~qualminoffset~   | Offset to the signalled Q~qualmin~ taken into  |
|                    | account in the Squal evaluation as a result of |
|                    | a periodic search for a higher priority PLMN   |
|                    | while camped normally in a VPLMN TS 23.122     |
|                    | \[5\]                                          |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Pcompensation      | If the UE supports the *additionalPmax* in the |
|                    | *NS-PmaxList*, if present, in SIB1, SIB3 and   |
|                    | SIB5:                                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) --            |
|                    | (min(P~EMAX2~, P~PowerClass~) -- min(P~EMAX1~, |
|                    | P~PowerClass~)) (dB);                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | else:                                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | if P~PowerClass~ is 14 dBm:                    |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | max(P~EMAX1~ --(P~PowerClass~ -- Poffset), 0)  |
|                    | (dB);                                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | else:                                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) (dB)          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | For IAB-MT, P~compensation~ is set to 0.       |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| P~EMAX1~, P~EMAX2~ | Maximum TX power level an UE may use when      |
|                    | transmitting on the uplink in the cell (dBm)   |
|                    | defined as P~EMAX~ in TS 36.101 \[33\].        |
|                    | P~EMAX1~ and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the    |
|                    | *p-Max* and the *NS-PmaxList* respectively in  |
|                    | SIB1, SIB3 and SIB5 as specified in TS 36.331  |
|                    | \[3\].                                         |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| P~PowerClass~      | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm)        |
|                    | according to the UE power class as defined in  |
|                    | TS 36.101 \[33\]                               |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+

The signalled values Q~rxlevminoffset~ and Q~qualminoffset~ are only
applied when a cell is evaluated for cell selection as a result of a
periodic search for a higher priority PLMN while camped normally in a
VPLMN TS 23.122 \[5\]. During this periodic search for higher priority
PLMN the UE may check the S criteria of a cell using parameter values
stored from a different cell of this higher priority PLMN.

If cell selection criterion S in normal coverage is not fulfilled for a
cell, UE shall consider itself to be in enhanced coverage if the cell
selection criterion S for enhanced coverage is fulfilled, where:

  ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  Q~rxlevmin~   UE applies coverage specific value Q~rxlevmin\_CE~ (dBm)
  Q~qualmin~    UE applies coverage specific value Q~qualmin\_CE~ (dB)
  ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------

If cell selection criteria S in normal coverage is fulfilled for a cell,
UE may consider itself to be in enhanced coverage if
*SystemInformationBlockType1* cannot be acquired but UE is able to
acquire *MasterInformationBlock, SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* and
*SystemInformationBlockType2*.

If cell selection criterion S in normal coverage is not fulfilled for a
cell and UE does not consider itself in enhanced coverage based on
coverage specific values Q~rxlevmin\_CE~ and, if the measurements are
not performed using RSS as specified in \[10\], Q~qualmin\_CE~, UE shall
consider itself to be in enhanced coverage if UE supports CE Mode B and
CE mode B is not restricted by upper layers and the cell selection
criterion S for enhanced coverage is fulfilled, where:

  Q~rxlevmin~   UE applies coverage specific value Q~rxlevmin\_CE1~ (dBm)
  ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
  Q~qualmin~    UE applies coverage specific value Q~qualmin\_CE1~ (dB)

For the UE in enhanced coverage, coverage specific values
Q~rxlevmin\_CE~ and Q~qualmin\_CE~ (or Q~rxlevmin\_CE1~ and
Q~qualmin\_CE1~) are only applied for the suitability check in enhanced
coverage (i.e. not used for measurement and reselection thresholds).

#### 5.2.3.2a Cell Selection Criterion for NB-IoT

If the measurements are performed on the non-anchor carrier and UE meets
the requirements specified in TS 36.133 \[10\] the cell selection
criterion S is fulfilled when:

  -------------
  Srxlev \> 0
  -------------

Else, the cell selection criterion S is fulfilled when:

  ----------------------------
  Srxlev \> 0 AND Squal \> 0
  ----------------------------

where:

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Srxlev = Q~rxlevmeas~ -- Q~rxlevmin~ -- Pcompensation -              |
| **Qoffset~temp~**                                                    |
|                                                                      |
| Squal = Q~qualmeas~ -- Q~qualmin~ - **Qoffset~temp~**                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

where:

+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Srxlev             | Cell selection RX level value (dB)             |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Squal              | Cell selection quality value (dB)              |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| **Qoffset~temp~**  | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as        |
|                    | specified in TS 36.331 \[3\] (dB)              |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~rxlevmeas~       | Measured cell RX level value (RSRP)            |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | If RSRP is measured on non-anchor carrier of   |
|                    | the cell, the measured RSRP value is           |
|                    | translated to Q~rxlevmeas~ as below.           |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | Q~rxlevmeas~ = Q~rxlevmeasNonAnchor~ -         |
|                    | *nrs-PowerOffsetNonAnchor*.                    |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | Where Q~rxlevmeasNonAnchor~ is the Measured RX |
|                    | level (RSRP) of the non-anchor carrier.        |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~qualmeas~        | Measured cell quality value (RSRQ)             |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~rxlevmin~        | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm)    |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | If UE is not authorized for enhanced coverage  |
|                    | and **Qoffset~authorization\ ~**is valid then  |
|                    | Q~rxlevmin~ = Q~rxlevmin~ +                    |
|                    | **Qoffset~authorization~.**                    |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~qualmin~         | Minimum required quality level in the cell     |
|                    | (dB)                                           |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Pcompensation      | If the UE supports the *additionalPmax* in the |
|                    | *NS-PmaxList-NB*, if present, in SIB1-NB,      |
|                    | SIB3-NB and SIB5-NB:                           |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) --            |
|                    | (min(P~EMAX2~, P~PowerClass~) -- min(P~EMAX1~, |
|                    | P~PowerClass~)) (dB);                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | else:                                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | if P~PowerClass~ is 14 dBm:                    |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | max(P~EMAX1~ --(P~PowerClass~ -- Poffset), 0)  |
|                    | (dB);                                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | else:                                          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) (dB)          |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| P~EMAX1~, P~EMAX2~ | Maximum TX power level an UE may use when      |
|                    | transmitting on the uplink in the cell (dBm)   |
|                    | defined as P~EMAX~ in TS 36.101 \[33\].        |
|                    | P~EMAX1~ and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the    |
|                    | *p-Max* and the *NS-PmaxList-NB* respectively  |
|                    | in SIB1-NB, SIB3-NB and SIB5-NB as specified   |
|                    | in TS 36.331 \[3\].                            |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| P~PowerClass~      | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm)        |
|                    | according to the UE power class as defined in  |
|                    | TS 36.101 \[33\]                               |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+

#### 5.2.3.3 CSG cells and Hybrid cells in Cell Selection

In addition to normal cell selection rules a manual selection of CSGs
shall be supported by the UE upon request from higher layers as defined
in clause 5.5.

#### 5.2.3.4 GSM case in Cell Selection

The cell selection criteria and procedures in GSM are specified in TS
43.022 \[9\].

#### 5.2.3.5 UTRAN case in Cell Selection

The cell selection criteria and procedures in UTRAN are specified in TS
25.304 \[8\].

#### 5.2.3.6 NR case in Cell Selection

The cell selection criteria and procedures in NR are specified in TS
38.304 \[38\].

### 5.2.4 Cell Reselection evaluation process

#### 5.2.4.1 Reselection priorities handling

Absolute priorities of different E-UTRAN frequencies or inter-RAT
frequencies may be provided to the UE in the system information, in the
*RRCConnectionRelease* or *RRCEarlyDataComplete* message, or by
inheriting from another RAT at inter-RAT cell (re)selection. In the case
of system information, an E-UTRAN frequency or inter-RAT frequency may
be listed without providing a priority (i.e. the field
*cellReselectionPriority* is absent for that frequency). If priorities
are provided in dedicated signalling, the UE shall ignore all the
priorities provided in system information. If UE is in *camped on any
cell* state, UE shall only apply the priorities (i.e.
*cellReselectionPriority* and/or *cellReselectionSubPriority*) provided
by system information from current cell, and the UE preserves priorities
provided by dedicated signalling, *deprioritisationReq* received in
*RRCConnectionReject* and *altFreqPriorities* provided by dedicated
signalling unless specified otherwise. When the UE in *camped normally*
state, has only dedicated priorities other than for the current
frequency, the UE shall consider the current frequency to be the lowest
priority frequency (i.e. lower than any of the network configured
values). While the UE is camped on a suitable CSG cell in normal
coverage, the UE shall always consider the current frequency to be the
highest priority frequency (i.e. higher than any of the network
configured values), irrespective of any other priority value allocated
to this frequency. When the HSDN capable UE is in High-mobility state,
the UE shall always consider the HSDN cells to be the highest priority
(i.e. higher than any other network configured priorities). When the
HSDN capable UE is not in High-mobility state, the UE shall always
consider HSDN cells to be the lowest priority (i.e. lower than network
configured priorities). If the UE capable of sidelink communication is
configured to perform sidelink communication and can only perform the
sidelink communication while camping on a frequency, the UE may consider
that frequency to be the highest priority. If the UE capable of V2X
sidelink communication is configured to perform V2X sidelink
communication and can only perform the V2X sidelink communication while
camping on a frequency, the UE may consider that frequency to be the
highest priority. If the UE capable of V2X sidelink communication is
configured to perform V2X sidelink communication and can only use
pre-configuration while not camping on a frequency, the UE may consider
the frequency providing inter-carrier V2X sidelink configuration to be
the highest priority. If the UE is configured to perform both V2X
sidelink communication and NR sidelink communication, the UE may
consider the frequency providing both V2X sidelink communication and NR
sidelink communication configuration to be the highest priority. If the
UE is configured to perform V2X sidelink communication and not perform
NR sidelink communication, the UE may consider the frequency providing
V2X sidelink communication configuration to be the highest priority. If
the UE is configured to perform NR sidelink communication and not
perform V2X sidelink communication, the UE may consider the frequency
providing NR sidelink communication configuration to be the highest
priority. If the UE capable of sidelink discovery is configured to
perform Public Safety related sidelink discovery and can only perform
the Public Safety related sidelink discovery while camping on a
frequency, the UE may consider that frequency to be the highest
priority.

NOTE 1: The prioritization among the frequencies which UE considers to
be the highest priority frequency is left to UE implementation.

NOTE 1a: The frequency only providing the anchor frequency configuration
should not be prioritized for V2X service during cell reselection as
specified in TS 36.331\[3\].

NOTE 1b: When UE is configured to perform NR sidelink communication or
V2X sidelink communication performs cell reselection, it may
consider the frequencies providing the intra-carrier and inter-carrier
configuration have equal priority in cell reselection.

NOTE 1c: The UE is configured to perform V2X sidelink communication or
NR sidelink communication, if it has the capability and is authorized
for the corresponding sidelink operation.

> NOTE 1d: When UE is configured to perform both NR sidelink
> communication and V2X sidelink communication, but cannot find a
> frequency which can provide both NR sidelink communication
> configuration and V2X sidelink communication configuration, UE may
> consider the frequency providing either NR sidelink communication
> configuration or V2X sidelink communication configuration to be the
> highest priority.

If the UE is capable either of MBMS Service Continuity or of SC-PTM
reception and is receiving or interested to receive an MBMS service and
can only receive this MBMS service while camping on a frequency on which
it is provided, the UE may consider that frequency to be the highest
priority during the MBMS session TS 36.300 \[2\] as long as the two
following conditions are fulfilled:

1\) Either:

\- the UE is capable of MBMS service continuity and the reselected cell
is broadcasting SIB13; or

\- the UE is capable of SC-PTM reception and the reselected cell is
broadcasting SIB20;

2\) Either:

\- SIB15 of the serving cell indicates for that frequency one or more
MBMS SAIs included and associated with that frequency in the MBMS User
Service Description (USD) TS 26.346 \[22\] of this service; or

\- SIB15 is not broadcast in the serving cell and that frequency is
included in the USD of this service.

If the UE is capable either of MBMS Service Continuity or of SC-PTM
reception and is receiving or interested to receive an MBMS service
provided on a downlink only MBMS frequency, on a frequency used by
dedicated MBMS cells, on a frequency used by FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cells
as defined in TS 36.300 \[2\], or on a frequency belonging to PLMN
different from its registered PLMN, the UE may consider cell reselection
candidate frequencies at which it can not receive the MBMS service to be
of the lowest priority during the MBMS session TS 36.300 \[2\], as long
as the above mentioned condition 1) is fulfilled for the cell on the
MBMS frequency which the UE monitors or this cell broadcasts SIB1-MBMS
and as long as the above mentioned condition 2) is fulfilled for the
serving cell.

NOTE 2: Example scenarios in which the previous down-prioritisation may
be needed concerns the cases where camping is not possible, while the UE
can only receive this MBMS frequency when camping on a subset of cell
reselection candidate frequencies, e.g. the MBMS frequency is a downlink
only carrier, the MBMS frequency is used by dedicated MBMS cells, the
MBMS frequency is used by FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cells TS 36.300 \[2\], or
the MBMS frequency belongs to a PLMN different from UE\'s registered
PLMN.

If the UE is not capable of MBMS Service Continuity but has knowledge on
which frequency an MBMS service of interest is provided, it may consider
that frequency to be the highest priority during the MBMS session TS
36.300 \[2\] as long as the reselected cell is broadcasting SIB13.

If the UE is not capable of MBMS Service Continuity but has knowledge on
which downlink only frequency, on which frequency used by dedicated MBMS
cells, on which frequency used by FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cells as defined
in TS 36.300 \[2\] or on which frequency belonging to PLMN different
from its registered PLMN an MBMS service of interest is provided, it may
consider cell reselection candidate frequencies at which it can not
receive the MBMS service to be of the lowest priority during the MBMS
session TS 36.300 \[2\] as long as the cell on the MBMS frequency which
the UE monitors is broadcasting SIB13 or SIB1-MBMS.

> NOTE 3: The UE considers that the MBMS session is ongoing using the
> session start and end times as provided by upper layers in the USD
> i.e. the UE does not verify if the session is indicated on MCCH.

In case UE receives *RRCConnectionReject* with *deprioritisationReq*, UE
shall consider current carrier frequency and stored frequencies due to
the previously received *RRCConnectionReject* with *deprioritisationReq*
or all the frequencies of EUTRA to be the lowest priority frequency
(i.e. lower than any of the network configured values) while T325 is
running irrespective of camped RAT. The UE shall delete the stored
deprioritisation request(s) when a PLMN selection is performed on
request by NAS TS 23.122 \[5\].

NOTE 4: Connecting to CDMA2000 does not imply PLMN selection.

NOTE 5: UE should search for a higher priority layer for cell
reselection as soon as possible after the change of priority. The
minimum related performance requirements specified in TS 36.133 \[10\]
are still applicable.

The UE shall delete priorities or *altFreqPriorities* provided by
dedicated signalling when:

\- the UE enters a different RRC state; or

\- the optional validity time of dedicated priorities (T320) expires; or

\- the optional validity time of *altFreqPriorities* (T323) expires; or

\- a PLMN selection is performed on request by NAS TS 23.122 \[5\].

NOTE 6: Equal priorities between RATs are not supported.

The UE shall only perform cell reselection evaluation for E-UTRAN
frequencies and inter-RAT frequencies that are given in system
information and for which the UE has a priority provided.

In case the UE received *RRCConnectionRelease* with *altFreqPriorities*,
for E-UTRAN frequencies, the UE shall apply the alternative cell
reselection priorities broadcast via *altCellReselectionPriority* and
*altCellReselectionSubPriority* in the system information instead of
priorities broadcast via *cellReselectionPriority* and
*cellReselectionSubPriority.* If the UE received *RRCConnectionRelease*
with *altFreqPriorities* and the alternative cell reselection priorities
are not broadcast via *altCellReselectionPriority* and
*altCellReselectionSubPriority* in the system information, for E-UTRAN
frequencies, the UE shall apply the cell reselection priority
information broadcast in the system information via
*cellReselectionPriority* and *cellReselectionSubPriority. When
altFreqPriorities is discarded or deleted, the UE shall* apply the cell
reselection priority information broadcast in the system information via
*cellReselectionPriority* and *cellReselectionSubPriority.*

The UE shall not consider any black listed cells as candidate for cell
reselection.

For cell reselection to NR operating with shared spectrum channel
access, the UE shall consider only the white listed cells, if configured
in SIB24, as candidates for cell reselection.

The UE shall inherit the priorities provided by dedicated signalling and
the remaining validity time (i.e., T320 in E-UTRA and NR, T322 in UTRA
and T3230 in GERAN), if configured, at inter-RAT cell (re)selection. The
UE shall delete *altFreqPriorities* provided by dedicated signalling, if
configured, at inter-RAT cell (re)selection.

NOTE 7: The network may assign dedicated cell reselection priorities for
frequencies not configured by system information.

While T360 is running, redistribution target is considered to be the
highest priority (i.e. higher than any of the network configured
values). UE shall continue to consider the serving frequency as the
highest priority until completion of E-UTRAN Inter-frequency
Redistribution procedure specified in 5.2.4.10 if triggered on T360
expiry/ stop.

#### 5.2.4.2 Measurement rules for cell re-selection

For NB-IoT measurement rules for cell re-selection is defined in clause
5.2.4.2.a.

When evaluating Srxlev and Squal of non-serving cells for reselection
purposes, the UE shall use parameters provided by the serving cell.

Following rules are used by the UE to limit needed measurements:

\- If the measurements are performed using RSS as specified in \[10\]
and the serving cell fulfils Srxlev \> S~IntraSearchP~, the UE may
choose not to perform intra-frequency measurements.

\- Else if the serving cell fulfils Srxlev \> S~IntraSearchP~ and Squal
\> S~IntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform intra-frequency
measurements.

\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform intra-frequency measurements.

\- The UE shall apply the following rules for E-UTRAN inter-frequencies
and inter-RAT frequencies which are indicated in system information and
for which the UE has priority provided as defined in 5.2.4.1:

\- For an E-UTRAN inter-frequency or inter-RAT frequency with a
reselection priority higher than the reselection priority of the current
E-UTRA frequency the UE shall perform measurements of higher priority
E-UTRAN inter-frequency or inter-RAT frequencies according to TS 36.133
\[10\].

\- For an E-UTRAN inter-frequency with an equal or lower reselection
priority than the reselection priority of the current E-UTRA frequency
and for inter-RAT frequency with lower reselection priority than the
reselection priority of the current E-UTRAN frequency:

\- If the measurements are performed using RSS as specified in \[10\]
and the serving cell fulfils Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~, the UE may
choose not to perform measurements of E-UTRAN inter-frequencies or
inter-RAT frequency cells of equal or lower priority unless the UE is
triggered to measure an E-UTRAN inter-frequency which is configured with
*redistributionInterFreqInfo*.

\- Else if the serving cell fulfils Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and
Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform
measurements of E-UTRAN inter-frequencies or inter-RAT frequency cells
of equal or lower priority unless the UE is triggered to measure an
E-UTRAN inter-frequency which is configured with
*redistributionInterFreqInfo*.

\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform measurements of E-UTRAN
inter-frequencies or inter-RAT frequency cells of equal or lower
priority according to TS 36.133 \[10\].

\- If the UE supports relaxed monitoring and *s-SearchDeltaP* is present
in *SystemInformationBlockType3*, the UE may further limit the needed
measurements, as specified in clause 5.2.4.12.

#### 5.2.4.2a Measurement rules for cell re-selection for NB-IoT

When evaluating Srxlev and Squal of non-serving cells for reselection
purposes, the UE shall use parameters provided by the serving cell.

Following rules are used by the UE to limit needed measurements:

\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev \> S~IntraSearchP~, the UE may
choose not to perform intra-frequency measurements.

\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform intra-frequency measurements.

\- The UE shall apply the following rules for NB-IoT inter-frequencies
which are indicated in system information:

\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~, the UE may
choose not to perform inter-frequency measurements.

\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform inter-frequency measurements.

\- If the UE supports relaxed monitoring and *s-SearchDeltaP* is present
in *SystemInformationBlockType3-NB*, the UE may further limit the needed
measurements, as specified in clause 5.2.4.12.

#### 5.2.4.3 Mobility states of a UE

Besides Normal-mobility state a High-mobility and a Medium-mobility
state are applicable if the parameters (T~CRmax~, N~CR\_H~, N~CR\_M~,
T~CRmaxHyst~ and *cellEquivalentSize*) are sent in the system
information broadcast of the serving cell.

**State detection criteria:**

Medium-mobility state criteria:

\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ exceeds
N~CR\_M~ and not exceeds N~CR\_H~

High-mobility state criteria:

\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ exceeds
N~CR\_H~

The UE shall not count consecutive reselections between same two cells
into mobility state detection criteria if same cell is reselected just
after one other reselection. If the UE is capable of HSDN and the
*cellEquivalentSize* is configured, the UE counts the number of cell
reselections for this cell as *cellEquivalentSize* configured for this
cell.

**State transitions:**

The UE shall:

\- if the criteria for High-mobility state is detected:

\- enter High-mobility state.

\- else if the criteria for Medium-mobility state is detected:

\- enter Medium-mobility state.

\- else if criteria for either Medium- or High-mobility state is not
detected during time period T~CRmaxHys**t**~:

\- enter Normal-mobility state.

If the UE is in High- or Medium-mobility state, the UE shall apply the
speed dependent scaling rules as defined in clause 5.2.4.3.1.

##### 5.2.4.3.1 Scaling rules

UE shall apply the following scaling rules:

\- If neither Medium- nor Highmobility state is detected:

\- no scaling is applied.

\- If High-mobility state is detected:

\- Add the *sf-High* of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~\" to
Q~hyst~ if sent on system information

\- For E-UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the *sf-High*
of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if sent on
system information

\- For UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~UTRA~** by the *sf-High* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA~\" if sent on
system information

\- For GERAN cells multiply **Treselection~GERA~** by the *sf-High* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA~ state\" if sent
on system information

\- For CDMA2000 HRPD cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA\_HRPD~** by the
*sf-High* of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for
**Treselection~CDMA\_HRPD~**\" if sent on system information

\- For CDMA2000 1xRTT cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA\_1xRTT~** by
the *sf-High* of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for
**Treselection~CDMA\_1xRTT~**\" if sent on system information

\- For NR cells multiply **Treselection~NR~** by the *sf-High* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~\" if sent on system
information

\- If Medium-mobility state is detected:

\- Add the *sf-Medium* of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~\"
to Q~hyst~ if sent on system information

\- For E-UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the *sf-Medium*
of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if sent on
system information

\- For UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~UTRA~** by the *sf-Medium* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA~\" if sent on
system information

\- For GERAN cells multiply **Treselection~GERA~** by the *sf-Medium* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA~\" if sent on
system information

\- For CDMA2000 HRPD cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA\_HRPD~** by the
*sf-Medium* of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for
**Treselection~CDMA\_HRPD~**\" if sent on system information

\- For CDMA2000 1xRTT cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA\_1xRTT~** by
the *sf-Medium* of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for
**Treselection~CDMA\_1xRTT~**\" if sent on system information

\- For NR cells multiply **Treselection~NR~** by the *sf-Medium* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~\" if sent on system
information

In case scaling is applied to any **Treselection~RAT~** parameter the UE
shall round up the result after all scalings to the nearest second.

#### 5.2.4.4 Cells with cell reservations, access restrictions or unsuitable for normal camping

For the highest ranked cell (including serving cell) according to cell
reselection criteria specified in clause 5.2.4.6, for the best cell
according to absolute priority reselection criteria specified in clause
5.2.4.5, the UE shall check if the access is restricted according to the
rules in clause 5.3.1.

If that cell and other cells have to be excluded from the candidate
list, as stated in clause 5.3.1, the UE shall not consider these as
candidates for cell reselection. This limitation shall be removed when
the highest ranked cell changes.

If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an intra-frequency or inter-frequency cell which is
not suitable for a CN type due to being part of the \"list of forbidden
TAs for roaming\" or belonging to a PLMN which is not indicated as being
equivalent to the registered PLMN, the UE shall not consider this cell
and other cells on the same frequency, as candidates for reselection for
the CN type for a maximum of 300s. If the UE enters into state *any cell
selection*, any limitation shall be removed. If the UE is redirected
under E-UTRAN control to a frequency for which the timer is running, any
limitation on that frequency shall be removed.

If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an inter-RAT cell which is not suitable due to
being part of the \"list of forbidden TAs for roaming\" or belonging to
a PLMN which is not indicated as being equivalent to the registered
PLMN, the UE shall not consider this cell and other cells on the same
frequency as candidates for reselection for a maximum of 300s. In case
of UTRA further requirements are defined in the TS 25.304 \[8\]. In case
of NR further requirements are defined in the TS 38.304 \[38\]. If the
UE enters into state *any cell selection*, any limitation shall be
removed. If the UE is redirected under E-UTRAN control to a frequency
for which the timer is running, any limitation on that frequency shall
be removed.

If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is a CSG cell which is not suitable due to not being a
CSG member cell, the UE shall not consider this cell as candidate for
cell reselection but shall continue considering other cells on the same
frequency for cell reselection.

#### 5.2.4.5 E-UTRAN Inter-frequency and inter-RAT Cell Reselection criteria

For NB-IoT inter-frequency cell reselection shall be based on ranking as
defined in clause 5.2.4.6.

If ***threshServingLowQ*** is provided in *SystemInformationBlockType3*
and more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current
serving cell and if the measurements are not performed using RSS as
specified in \[10\], cell reselection to a cell on a higher priority
E-UTRAN frequency or inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency
shall be performed if:

\- A cell of a higher priority EUTRAN, NR or UTRAN FDD RAT/ frequency
fulfils Squal \> Thresh~X,\ HighQ~ during a time interval
Treselection~RAT~; or

\- A cell of a higher priority UTRAN TDD, GERAN or CDMA2000 RAT/
frequency fulfils Srxlev \> Thresh~X,\ HighP~ during a time interval
Treselection~RAT~.

Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a higher priority E-UTRAN
frequency or inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be
performed if:

\- A cell of a higher priority RAT/ frequency fulfils Srxlev \>
Thresh~X,\ HighP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; and

\- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current
serving cell.

Cell reselection to a cell on an equal priority E-UTRAN frequency shall
be based on ranking for Intra-frequency cell reselection as defined in
clause 5.2.4.6.

If ***threshServingLowQ*** is provided in *SystemInformationBlockType3*
and more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current
serving cell and if the measurements are not performed using RSS as
specified in \[10\], cell reselection to a cell on a lower priority
E-UTRAN frequency or inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency
shall be performed if:

\- The serving cell fulfils Squal \< Thresh~Serving,\ LowQ~ and a cell
of a lower priority EUTRAN, NR or UTRAN FDD RAT/ frequency fulfils Squal
\> Thresh~X,\ LowQ~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; or

\- The serving cell fulfils Squal \< Thresh~Serving,\ LowQ~ and a cell
of a lower priority UTRAN TDD, GERAN or CDMA2000 RAT/ frequency fulfils
Srxlev \> Thresh~X,\ LowP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~.

Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a lower priority E-UTRAN
frequency or inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be
performed if:

\- The serving cell fulfils Srxlev \< Thresh~Serving,\ LowP~ and a cell
of a lower priority RAT/ frequency fulfils Srxlev \> Thresh~X,\ LowP~
during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; and

> \- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current
> serving cell.

Cell reselection to a higher priority RAT/ frequency shall take
precedence over a lower priority RAT/ frequency, if multiple cells of
different priorities fulfil the cell reselection criteria.

The UE shall not perform cell reselection to NR or UTRAN FDD cells for
which the cell selection criterion S is not fulfilled.

For cdma2000 RATs, Srxlev is equal to -FLOOR(-2 x 10 x log10 Ec/Io) in
units of 0.5 dB, as defined in \[18\], with Ec/Io referring to the value
measured from the evaluated cell.

For cdma2000 RATs, Thresh~X,\ HighP~ and Thresh~X,\ LowP~ are equal to
-1 times the values signalled for the corresponding parameters in the
system information.

In all the above criteria the value of Treselection~RAT~ is scaled when
the UE is in the medium or high mobility state as defined in clause
5.2.4.3.1. If more than one cell meets the above criteria, the UE shall
reselect a cell as follows:

\- If the highest-priority frequency is an E-UTRAN frequency, a cell
ranked as the best cell among the cells on the highest priority
frequency(ies) meeting the criteria according to clause 5.2.4.6;

\- If the highest-priority frequency is from another RAT, a cell ranked
as the best cell among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies)
meeting the criteria of that RAT.

Cell reselection to another RAT, for which Squal based cell reselection
parameters are broadcast in system information, shall be performed based
on the Squal criteria if the UE supports Squal (RSRQ) based cell
reselection to E-UTRAN from all the other RATs provided by system
information which UE supports. Otherwise, cell reselection to another
RAT shall be performed based on Srxlev criteria.

Cell reselection to NR, for which a cell reselection parameter,
*q-RxLevMinSUL* is broadcast in system information and the UE supports
SUL, shall be performed based on Srxlev criteria taking the parameter
into account.

#### 5.2.4.6 Intra-frequency and equal priority inter-frequency Cell Reselection criteria

The cell-ranking criterion R~s~ for serving cell and R~n~ for
neighbouring cells is defined by:

where:

+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
| Q~meas~        | RSRP measurement quantity used in cell             |
|                | reselections.                                      |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
| Qoffset        | For intra-frequency: Equals to Qoffset~s,n~, if    |
|                | Qoffset~s,n~ is valid, otherwise this equals to    |
|                | zero.                                              |
|                |                                                    |
|                | For inter-frequency:                               |
|                |                                                    |
|                | Except for NB-IoT, equals to Qoffset~s,n~ plus     |
|                | Qoffset~frequency~, if Qoffset~s,n~ is valid,      |
|                | otherwise this equals to Qoffset~frequency~.       |
|                |                                                    |
|                | For NB-IoT equals to QoffsetDedicated~frequency~   |
|                | for any frequency other than the frequency of the  |
|                | dedicated frequency offset, if                     |
|                | QoffsetDedicated~frequency~ is valid, otherwise    |
|                | this equals to Qoffset~frequency~ (if              |
|                | QoffsetDedicated~frequency~ is valid               |
|                | Qoffset~frequency~ is not used).                   |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
| Qoffset~temp~  | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as specified  |
|                | in TS 36.331 \[3\]                                 |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
| Qoffset~SCPTM~ | Offset temporarily applied to an SC-PTM frequency  |
|                | as specified below. The offset is applied to all   |
|                | cells on the SC-PTM frequency. If Qoffset~SCPTM~   |
|                | is valid, Qoffset for inter-frequency neighbour    |
|                | cells is not used.                                 |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+

If the NB-IoT UE or UE in enhanced coverage is capable of SC-PTM
reception and is receiving or interested to receive an MBMS service and
can only receive this MBMS service while camping on a frequency on which
it is provided (SC-PTM frequency), the UE considers Qoffset~SCPTM~ to be
valid during the MBMS session TS 36.300 \[2\] as long as the following
condition is fulfilled:

Either:

\- SIB15 (or SIB15-NB) of the serving cell indicates for that frequency
one or more MBMS SAIs included in the MBMS User Service Description
(USD) TS 26.346 \[22\] of this service; or

\- SIB15 (or SIB15-NB) is not broadcast in the serving cell and that
frequency is included in the USD of this service.

NOTE: UE should search for a higher ranked cell on another frequency for
cell reselection as soon as possible after the UE stops using
Qoffset~SCPTM~.

The UE shall perform ranking of all cells that fulfil the cell selection
criterion S, which is defined in 5.2.3.2 (5.2.3.2a for NB-IoT), but may
exclude all CSG cells that are known by the UE not to be CSG member
cells.

The cells shall be ranked according to the R criteria specified above,
deriving Q~meas,n~ and Q~meas,s~ and calculating the R values using
averaged RSRP results.

If a cell is ranked as the best cell the UE shall perform cell
reselection to that cell. If this cell is found to be not-suitable, the
UE shall behave according to clause 5.2.4.4.

In all cases, the UE shall reselect the new cell, only if the following
conditions are met:

\- the new cell is better ranked than the serving cell during a time
interval Treselection~RAT~;

\- more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current
serving cell.

When the UE uses infinite dBs for Qoffset~SCPTM~, the UE shall use
Qoffset~SCPTM~ zero and rank the cells on the SC-PTM frequency(ies) only
first. If the UE cannot find a suitable cell on an SC-PTM frequency, the
UE shall rank the cells on all frequencies.

#### 5.2.4.6a Reselection for enhanced coverage

Ranking as defined in clause 5.2.4.6 is applied for intra-frequency and
inter-frequency cell reselection (irrespective of configured frequency
priorities, if any) while the UE is in enhanced coverage.

If a UE considers itself to be in enhanced coverage when S criteria for
normal coverage is fulfilled, the absolute priority reselection cell
reselection criteria as defined in clause 5.2.4.5 is applied for
inter-frequency cell reselection.

#### 5.2.4.7 Cell reselection parameters in system information broadcasts

Cell reselection parameters are broadcast in system information and are
read from the serving cell as follows:

**altCellReselectionPriority**

This specifies the absolute priority of E-UTRAN frequency used by the
UE, if *altFreqPriorities* is configured.

**altCellReselectionSubPriority**

This specifies fractional priority value added to
*altCellReselectionPriority* for E-UTRAN frequency used by the UE, if
*altFreqPriorities* is configured.

**cellReselectionPriority**

This specifies the absolute priority for E-UTRAN frequency or NR
frequency or UTRAN frequency or group of GERAN frequencies or band class
of CDMA2000 HRPD or band class of CDMA2000 1xRTT.

**cellReselectionSubPriority**

This specifies the fractional priority value added to
cellReselectionPriority for E-UTRAN frequency or NR frequency.

**nrs-PowerOffsetNonAnchor**

This specifies the power offset of the downlink narrowband
reference-signal EPRE of the anchor/non-anchor carrier relative to the
anchor carrier for NB-IoT UE.

**Poffset**

This specifies the offset for 14 dBm power class for BL or NB-IoT UE.

**Qoffset~authorization~**

This specifies the offset for enhanced coverage authorization for
NB-IoT.

**Qoffset~s,n~**

This specifies the offset between the two cells.

**Qoffset~frequency~**

Frequency specific offset for equal priority E-UTRAN frequencies.

**Qoffset~scptm~**

This specifies the offset to be used for cell re-selection for SC-PTM
service reception for BL UE, UE in enhanced coverage and NB-IoT UE. The
same offset is applicable to all frequencies providing MBMS services via
SC-PTM.

**Qoffset~temp~**

This specifies the additional offset to be used for cell selection and
re-selection. It is temporarily used in case the T300 expires
consecutively on the cell as specified in TS 36.331 \[3\].

**Q~hyst~**

This specifies the hysteresis value for ranking criteria.

**Q~qualmin~**

This specifies the minimum required quality level in the cell in dB.

**Q~qualmin\_CE,~ Q~qualmin\_CE1~**

This specifies the coverage specific minimum required quality level in
the cell in dB.

**Q~rxlevmin~**

This specifies the minimum required Rx level in the cell in dBm.

**Q~rxlevmin\_CE,~ Q~rxlevmin\_CE1~**

This specifies the coverage specific minimum required Rx level in the
cell in dBm.

**RedistributionFactorFreq**

This specifies the redistribution factor for a neighbour E-UTRAN
frequency.

**RedistributionFactorCell**

This specifies the redistribution factor for a neighbour E-UTRAN cell.

**RedistributionFactorServing**

This specifies the redistribution factor for serving cell or serving
frequency.

**Treselection~RAT~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value. For each target E-UTRA
frequency and for each RAT (other than E-UTRA) a specific value for the
cell reselection timer is defined, which is applicable when evaluating
reselection within E-UTRAN or towards other RAT (i.e. Treselection~RAT~
for E-UTRAN is Treselection~EUTRA~, for NR Treselection~NR,~ for UTRAN
Treselection~UTRA~ for GERAN Treselection~GERA~, for
Treselection~CDMA\_HRPD~, and for Treselection~CDMA\_1xRTT~). For NB-IoT
intra-frequency and inter-frequency specific values for the cell
reselection timer are defined, which are applicable when evaluating
reselection within NB-IoT.

> NOTE: Treselection~RAT~ is not sent on system information, but used in
> reselection rules by the UE for each RAT.

**Treselection~EUTRA\_\ CE~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
E-UTRAN when a neighbour cell is evaluated for camping in enhanced
coverage. The parameter can be set per E-UTRAN frequency.

**Treselection~EUTRA~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
E-UTRAN. The parameter can be set per E-UTRAN frequency TS 36.331 \[3\].

**Treselection~NR~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
NR.

**Treselection~NB-IoT\_Intra~**

This specifies the intra-frequency cell reselection timer value
Treselection~RAT~ for NB-IoT.**Treselection~NB-IoT\_Inter~**

This specifies the inter-frequency cell reselection timer value
Treselection~RAT~ for NB-IoT.

**Treselection~UTRA~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
UTRAN.

**Treselection~GERA~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
GERAN.

**Treselection~CDMA\_HRPD~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
CDMA HRPD.

**Treselection~CDMA\_1xRTT~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
CDMA 1xRTT.

**Thresh~X,\ HighP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when
reselecting towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current
serving frequency. Each frequency of E-UTRAN, NR and UTRAN, each group
of GERAN frequencies, each band class of CDMA2000 HRPD and CDMA2000
1xRTT might have a specific threshold.

**Thresh~X,\ HighQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when
reselecting towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current
serving frequency. Each frequency of E-UTRAN, NR and UTRAN FDD might
have a specific threshold.

**Thresh~X,\ LowP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when
reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current
serving frequency. Each frequency of E-UTRAN, NR and UTRAN, each group
of GERAN frequencies, each band class of CDMA2000 HRPD and CDMA2000
1xRTT might have a specific threshold.

**Thresh~X,\ LowQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when
reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current
serving frequency. Each frequency of E-UTRAN, NR and UTRAN FDD might
have a specific threshold.

**Thresh~Serving,\ LowP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the
serving cell when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.

**Thresh~Serving,\ LowQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the serving
cell when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.

**S~IntraSearchP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency
measurements.

**S~IntraSearchQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency
measurements.

**S~nonIntraSearchP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for E-UTRAN inter-frequency
and inter-RAT measurements.

**S~nonIntraSearchQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for E-UTRAN inter-frequency
and inter-RAT measurements.

S~SearchDeltaP~

This specifies the Srxlev delta threshold (in dB) during relaxed
monitoring.

##### 5.2.4.7.1 Speed dependant reselection parameters

**T~CRmax~**

This specifies the duration for evaluating allowed amount of cell
reselection(s).

**N~CR\_M~**

This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter
Medium-mobility state.

**N~CR\_H~**

This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter
High-mobility state.

**T~CRmaxHyst~**

This specifies the additional time period before the UE can enter
Normal-mobility state.

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Qhyst**

This specifies scaling factor for Qhyst in *sf-High* for High-mobility
state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~**

This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~NR~ in *sf-High* for
High-mobility state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~**

This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~EUTRA~ in *sf-High* for
High-mobility state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA~**

This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~UTRA~ in *sf-High* for
High-mobility state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA~**

This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~GERA~ in H *sf-High* for
High-mobility state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~CDMA\_HRPD~**

This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~CDMA\_HRPD~ in *sf-High*
for High mobility state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~CDMA\_1xRTT~**

This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~CDMA\_1xRTT~ in *sf-High*
for High mobility state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state

#### 5.2.4.8 Cell reselection with CSG cells

##### 5.2.4.8.1 Cell reselection from a non-CSG cell to a CSG cell

In addition to normal cell reselection, the UE shall use an autonomous
search function to detect at least previously visited CSG member cells
on non-serving frequencies, including inter-RAT frequencies, according
to the performance requirements specified in TS 36.133 \[10\], when at
least one CSG ID with associated PLMN identity is included in the UE\'s
CSG whitelist. The UE may also use autonomous search on the serving
frequency. The UE shall disable the autonomous search function for CSG
cells if the UE\'s CSG whitelist is empty.

NOTE: The UE autonomous search function, per UE implementation,
determines when and/or where to search for CSG member cells.

If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on different
frequencies, then the UE shall reselect to one of the detected cells
irrespective of the frequency priority of the cell the UE is currently
camped on, if the concerned CSG cell is the highest ranked cell on that
frequency.

If the UE detects a suitable CSG cell on the same frequency, it shall
reselect to this cell as per normal reselection rules (5.2.4.6.).

If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on another RAT, the UE
shall reselect to one of them according to TS 25.304 \[19\].

##### 5.2.4.8.2 Cell reselection from a CSG cell

While camped on a suitable CSG cell, the UE shall apply the normal cell
reselection rules as defined in clause 5.2.4.

To search for suitable CSG cells on non-serving frequencies, the UE may
use an autonomous search function. If the UE detects a CSG cell on a
non-serving frequency, the UE may reselect to the detected CSG cell if
it is the highest ranked cell on its frequency.

If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on another RAT, the UE
may reselect to one of them if allowed according to TS 25.304 \[19\].

#### 5.2.4.9 Cell reselection with Hybrid cells

In addition to normal cell reselection rules, the UE shall use an
autonomous search function to detect at least previously visited hybrid
cells whose CSG ID and associated PLMN identity is in the UE\'s CSG
whitelist according to the performance requirements specified in TS
36.133 \[10\]. The UE shall treat detected hybrid cells as CSG cells if
the CSG ID and associated PLMN identity of the hybrid cell is in the
UE\'s CSG whitelist and as normal cells otherwise.

#### 5.2.4.10 E-UTRAN Inter-frequency Redistribution procedure

If a UE is redistribution capable and *redistributionServingInfo* is
included in *SystemInformationBlockType3* and
*redistributionInterFreqInfo* is included in
*SystemInformationBlockType5* and *the UE is not configured with
dedicated priorities* and

\- if T360 is not running and if *redistrOnPagingOnly* is not present in
*SystemInformationBlockType3*; or

\- if T360 expires and if *redistrOnPagingOnly* is not present in
*SystemInformationBlockType3*; or

\- if *Paging* message is received and the *redistributionIndication* is
included:

\- Perform inter-frequency measurement as specified in 5.2.4.2;

\- Once measurement results are available perform redistribution target
selection as specified in 5.2.4.10.1;

\- Start T360.

The UE shall stop T360 and cease to consider a frequency or cell to be
redistribution target when:

\- the UE enters RRC\_CONNECTED state; or

\- T360 expires; or

\- if *Paging* message is received and the *redistributionIndication* is
included while T360 is running; or

\- the UE reselects a cell not belonging to redistribution target.

##### 5.2.4.10.1 Redistribution target selection

The UE shall compile a sorted list of one or more candidate
redistribution targets, and for each candidate entry \[j\] a valid
*redistrFactor\[j\]*, in which entries are added in increasing index
order starting with index 0 as follows:

\- for the serving frequency (*redistributionFactorServing* is included
in *SystemInformationBlockType3 whenever redistribution is configured):*

\- the serving cell if *redistributionFactorCell* is included;

\- otherwise the serving frequency;

\- In both cases, *redistrFactor*\[0\] is set to
*redistributionFactorServing*;

\- for each entry in *InterFreqCarrierFreqList* and subsequent for each
entry in *InterFreqCarrierFreqListExt:*

\- the cell ranked as the best cell on this frequency according to
clause 5.2.4.6 if *redistributionNeighCellList* is configured and
includes this cell;

\- otherwise, the concerned frequency if *redistributionFactorFreq* is
configured and if at least one cell on the frequency fullfills the cell
selection criterion S defined in 5.2.3.2;

\- If the cell is included, *redistrFactor*\[j\] is set to the
corresponding *redistributionFactorCell*; If the frequency is included,
*redistrFactor*\[j\] is set to the corresponding
*redistributionFactorFreq*;

The UE shall choose a redistribution target as follows:

\- If \[0\], the UE shall choose the frequency or the cell corresponding
to redistrFactor\[0\] as its redistribution target or;

\- If , then the UE shall choose the frequency or cell corresponding to
*redistrFactor*\[i\] as its redistribution target;

If there are no redistribution candidates apart from the serving
frequency or cell, the redistrRange\[0\] = 1.

Otherwise, the redistrRange\[i\] of E-UTRAN frequency or cell is defined
by:

Where: maxCandidates is the total number of frequencies/cells with valid
redistrFactor\[j\].

#### 5.2.4.11 Cell reselection or CN type change when storing UE AS context

For UEs storing UE AS context and *resumeIdentity* as specified in TS
36.331 \[3\], upon cell reselection to another RAT or upon reselecting
to another CN type, the UE shall discard the stored UE AS context and
*resumeIdentity*.

#### 5.2.4.12 Relaxed monitoring

##### 5.2.4.12.0 Relaxed monitoring measurement rules

When the UE is required to perform intra-frequency or inter-frequency
measurement according to the measurement rules in clause 5.2.4.2 or
5.2.4.2a, the UE may choose not to perform intra-frequency or
inter-frequency measurements when:

\- The relaxed monitoring criterion in clause 5.2.4.12.1 is fulfilled
for a period of T~SearchDeltaP~, and

\- Less than 24 hours have passed since measurements for cell
reselection were last performed, and

\- The UE has performed intra-frequency or inter-frequency measurements
for at least T~SearchDeltaP~ after selecting or reselecting a new cell.

##### 5.2.4.12.1 Relaxed monitoring criterion

The relaxed monitoring criterion is fulfilled when:

\- (Srxlev~Ref~ -- Srxlev) \< S~SearchDeltaP~

Where:

\- Srxlev = current Srxlev value of the serving cell (dB).

\- Srxlev~Ref~ = reference Srxlev value of the serving cell (dB), set as
follows:

\- After selecting or reselecting a new cell, or

\- If (Srxlev - Srxlev~Ref~) \> 0, or

\- If the relaxed monitoring criterion has not been met for
T~SearchDeltaP~:

\- the UE shall set the value of Srxlev~Ref~ to the current Srxlev value
of the serving cell;

\- T~SearchDeltaP~ = 5 minutes, or the eDRX cycle length if eDRX is
configured and the eDRX cycle length is longer than 5 minutes.

#### 5.2.4.13 Cell reselection or CN type change in RRC\_INACTIVE state

For UE in the RRC\_INACTIVE state, upon cell reselection to another RAT
or CN type change, UE transitions from RRC\_INACTIVE to RRC\_IDLE and
performs actions as specified in TS 36.331 \[3\].

### 5.2.5 Void

### 5.2.6 Camped Normally state

This state is applicable for RRC\_IDLE and RRC\_INACTIVE state.

When camped normally, the UE shall perform the following tasks:

\- monitor the paging channel of the cell as specified in clause 7
according to information sent in system information;

\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;

\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:

1\) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in TS
36.133 \[10\];

2\) When information on the BCCH or BR-BCCH used for the cell
reselection evaluation procedure has been modified.

### 5.2.7 Cell Selection at transition to RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE state

For NB-IoT cell selection at transition to RRC\_IDLE state is defined in
clause 5.2.7a.

At reception of *RRCConnectionRelease* message or *RRCEarlyDataComplete*
message to move the UE into RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE, UE shall attempt
to camp on a suitable cell according to *redirectedCarrierInfo*, if
included in the *RRCConnectionRelease* message or *RRCEarlyDataComplete*
message. If the UE cannot find a suitable cell, the UE is allowed to
camp on any suitable cell of the indicated RAT. If the
*RRCConnectionRelease* message or *RRCEarlyDataComplete* message does
not contain the *redirectedCarrierInfo* UE shall attempt to select a
suitable cell on an EUTRA carrier. If no suitable cell is found
according to the above, the UE shall perform a cell selection starting
with Stored Information Cell Selection procedure in order to find a
suitable cell to camp on.

When returning to RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE state after UE moved to
RRC\_CONNECTED state from *camped on any cell* state, UE shall attempt
to camp on an acceptable cell according to *redirectedCarrierInfo*, if
included in the *RRCConnectionRelease* message. If the UE cannot find an
acceptable cell, the UE is allowed to camp on any acceptable cell of the
indicated RAT. If the *RRCConnectionRelease* message does not contain
*redirectedCarrierInfo* UE shall attempt to select an acceptable cell on
an EUTRA carrier. If no acceptable cell is found according to the above,
the UE shall continue to search for an acceptable cell of any PLMN in
state *any cell selection*.

### 5.2.7a Cell Selection at transition to RRC\_IDLE state for NB-IoT

At reception of *RRCConnectionRelease-NB* message or
*RRCEarlyDataComplete-NB* message to move the UE into RRC\_IDLE, UE
shall attempt to camp on a suitable cell according to
*redirectedCarrierInfo*, if included in the *RRCConnectionRelease-NB*
message or *RRCEarlyDataComplete-NB* message. If the UE cannot find a
suitable cell, the UE is allowed to camp on a suitable cell of any
NB-IoT carrier. If the *RRCConnectionRelease-NB* message or
*RRCEarlyDataComplete-NB* message does not contain the
*redirectedCarrierInfo* UE shall attempt to select a suitable cell on a
NB-IoT carrier.

### 5.2.8 Any Cell Selection state

For NB-IoT Any Cell Selection state is defined in clause 5.2.8a.

This state is applicable for RRC\_IDLE and RRC\_INACTIVE state. In this
state, the UE shall perform cell selection process to find a suitable
cell. If the cell selection process fails to find a suitable cell after
a complete scan of all RATs and all frequency bands supported by the UE,
the UE shall attempt to find an acceptable cell of any PLMN to camp on,
trying all RATs that are supported by the UE and searching first for a
high quality cell, as defined in clause 5.1.2.2.

The UE, which is not camped on any cell, shall stay in this state.

### 5.2.8a Any Cell Selection state for NB-IoT

In this state, the UE shall attempt to find a suitable cell of any PLMN
to camp on and searching first for a high quality cell, as defined in
clause 5.1.2.2.

The UE, which is not camped on any cell, shall stay in this state until
a suitable cell is found.

### 5.2.9 Camped on Any Cell state

In this state, the UE shall perform the following tasks:

\- monitor the paging channel of the cell as specified in clause 7
according to information sent in system information;

\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;

\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:

1\) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in TS
36.133 \[10\];

2\) When information on the BCCH or BR-BCCH used for the cell
reselection evaluation procedure has been modified;

\- regularly attempt to find a suitable cell trying all frequencies of
all RATs that are supported by the UE. If a suitable cell is found, UE
shall move to *camped normally* state;

\- if the UE supports voice services and the current cell does not
support emergency call as indicated in System information specified in
TS 36.331 \[3\], the UE should perform cell selection/ reselection to an
acceptable cell of any supported RAT regardless of priorities provided
in system information from current cell, if no suitable cell is found.

NOTE: The UE is allowed to not perform reselection to an inter-frequency
E-UTRAN cell in order to prevent camping on a cell on which it cannot
initiate an IMS emergency call.

5.3 Cell Reservations and Access Restrictions
---------------------------------------------

There are two mechanisms which allow an operator to impose cell
reservations or access restrictions. The first mechanism uses indication
of cell status and special reservations for control of cell selection
and reselection procedures. The second mechanism, referred to as Access
Control, shall allow preventing selected classes of users or ACDC
categories from sending initial access messages for load control
reasons. For Access Control based on Access Classes, at subscription,
one or more Access Classes are allocated to the subscriber and stored in
the USIM TS 22.011 \[4\]. For Access Control based on ACDC categories,
at subscription at least four ACDC categories are allocated to the
subscriber and stored in the ACDC MO TS 24.105 \[31\] or USIM TS 31.102
\[32\].

IAB-MT does not apply the access control.

### 5.3.1 Cell status and cell reservations

Cell status and cell reservations are indicated in the
*SystemInformationBlockType1* message (or
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* message or
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB* message) TS 36.331 \[3\] by means of
the following fields:

\- ***cellBarred*** (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\
This field indicates if the cell is barred for connectivity to EPC.\
This field is ignored by the UEs supporting *crs-IntfMitig* while
*crs-IntfMitigEnabled* is included in SIB1*.*\
This field is ignored by the BL UEs or UEs in CE supporting
*ce-CRS-IntfMitig* while *crs-IntfMigitNumPRBs* is included in SIB1-BR.\
In case of multiple EPC PLMNs indicated in SIB1/SIB1-BR, this field is
common for all EPC PLMNs

NOTE 1: IAB-MT ignores the ***cellBarred*, *cellReservedForOperatorUse,*
*intraFreqReselection* and *csg-Indication* (i.e. treats
*intraFreqReselection* as if it was set to *allowed* and the
*csg-Indication* as if it was set to *FALSE*) as defined in** TS 36.331
\[3\].

\- *cellBarred-5GC* (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\
This field indicates if the cell is barred for connectivity to 5GC.\
This field is ignored if the UE does not support E-UTRA connected to 5GC
or if the UE supports network-based CRS interference mitigation and
*nw-BasedCRS-InterferenceMitigation* is included in
*SystemInformationBlockType1*.\
In case of multiple 5GC PLMNs indicated in SIB1, this field is common
for all 5GC PLMNs.

\- ***cellReservedForOperatorUse*** (IE type: \"reserved\" or \"not
reserved\")\
This field indicates if the cell is reserved for operator use.\
This field is ignored by the UEs supporting *crs-IntfMitig* while
*crs-IntfMitigEnabled* is included in SIB1*.*\
This field is ignored by the BL UEs or UEs in CE supporting
*ce-CRS-IntfMitig* while *crs-IntfMigitNumPRBs* is included in
SIB1-BR*.*\
In case of multiple EPC or 5GC PLMNs indicated in SIB1/SIB1-BR, this
field is specified per EPC or 5GC PLMN.

\- *cellBarred-CRS* (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\
This field indicates if the cell is barred for connectivity to EPC for
UEs supporting network-based CRS interference mitigation.\
*barred* means the cell is barred for UEs supporting *crs-IntfMitig*
while *crs-IntfMitigEnabled* is included in SIB1. For BL UEs or UEs in
CE capable of *ce-CRS-IntfMitig*, *barred* means the cell is barred
while *crs-IntfMitigNumPRBs* is included in SIB1-BR.\
This field is ignored by the UE if the UE does not support CRS
interference mitigation or while *crs-IntfMitigConfig* is not included
in SIB1 (SIB1-BR for BL UEs or UEs in CE).\
In case of multiple PLMNs indicated in SIB1/SIB1-BR, this field is
common for all PLMNs.

\- *cellBarred-5GC-CRS* (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\
This field indicates if the cell is barred for connectivity to 5GC for
UEs supporting network-based CRS interference mitigation.\
This field is ignored if the UE does not support E-UTRA connected to 5GC
or network-based CRS interference mitigation.\
In case of multiple 5GC PLMNs indicated in SIB1, this field is common
for all 5GC PLMNs.

\- ***cellReservedForOperatorUse-CRS*** (IE type: \"reserved\" or \"not
reserved\")\
This field indicates if the cell is reserved for operator use for UEs
supporting network-based CRS interference mitigation.\
*reserved* means the cell is \"reserved\" for operator use for UEs
supporting *crs-IntfMitig* while *crs-IntfMitigEnabled* is included in
SIB1.\
For BL UEs or UEs in CE capable of *ce-CRS-IntfMitig*, *reserved* means
the cell is \"reserved\" for operator use while *crs-IntfMitigNumPRBs*
is included in SIB1-BR.\
This field is ignored if the UE does not support CRS interference
mitigation or while *crs-IntfMitigConfig* is not included in SIB1
(SIB1-BR for BL UEs or UEs in CE).\
In case of multiple PLMNs indicated in SIB1/SIB1-BR, this field is
specified per PLMN.

\- ***iab-Support*** (IE type: \"true\")

Indicated in *SIB1* message. In case of multiple PLMNs indicated in
*SIB1*, this field is specified per PLMN. This field indicates if the
cell is barred for IAB node or the cell does not support IAB node, or
both. When this field is absent, the IAB node shall treat this cell as
if cell status is barred.

The following description for handling of barred and reserved cells is
per CN type. If the UE supports more than one CN type, the UE shall only
exclude a cell as candidate for selection/reselection if it is excluded
for both CN types.

NOTE 2: Fields *cellBarred-CRS* and ***cellReservedForOperatorUse-CRS***
are not indicated in *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*

When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"not reserved\" for
operator use,

\- All UEs shall treat this cell as candidate during the cell selection
and cell reselection procedures.

When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"reserved\" for
operator use for any PLMN,

\- UEs assigned to Access Class 11 or 15 (or corresponding Access
Identity) operating in their HPLMN/EHPLMN shall treat this cell as
candidate during the cell selection and reselection procedures if the
field ***cellReservedForOperatorUse for that PLMN set to
\"reserved\".***

***- UEs assigned to an*** Access Class ***in the range of 0 to 9 (or
corresponding Access Identity 0), 12 to 14 (or corresponding Access
Identity) or to Access Identity 1 or 2 shall behave as if the cell
status is \"barred\" in case the cell is \"reserved for operator use\"
for the registered PLMN or the selected PLMN.***

NOTE 3: ACs 11, 15 (or corresponding Access Identity) are only valid for
use in the HPLMN/ EHPLMN; ACs 12, 13, 14 (or corresponding Access
Identity) are only valid for use in the home country TS 22.011 \[4\].

NOTE 4: Access Identities 1, 2 are valid in the PLMNs as specified in TS
22.261 \[41\].

When cell status \"barred\" is indicated or to be treated as if the cell
status is \"barred\",

\- The UE is not permitted to select/reselect this cell, not even for
emergency calls.

\- The UE shall consider other cells for cell selection/reselection
according to the following rule:

\- If the cell is to be treated as if the cell status is \"barred\" due
to being unable to acquire the *MasterInformationBlock (*or
*MasterInformationBlock-NB),* the *SystemInformationBlockType1 (*or
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* message or
*SystemInformationBlockType1-NB),* or the *SystemInformationBlockType2
(*or *SystemInformationBlockType2-NB)*:

\- the UE may exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for up to 300 seconds.

\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if the selection
criteria are fulfilled.

\- the UE may select the same cell in normal coverage if the UE was
barred in the cell due to being unable to acquire
*MasterInformationBlock*, *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*, or
*SystemInformationBlockType2* in enhanced coverage, but was able to
acquire *MasterInformationBlock*, *SystemInformationBlockType1*, and
*SystemInformationBlockType2* in normal coverage, if the selection
criteria are fulfilled.

\- the UE may select the same cell in enhanced coverage if the UE was
barred in the cell due to being unable to acquire
*MasterInformationBlock*, *SystemInformationBlockType1*, or
*SystemInformationBlockType2* in normal coverage, but was able to
acquire *MasterInformationBlock*, *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*, and
*SystemInformationBlockType2*, if the selection criteria are fulfilled.

\- else

\- If the cell is a CSG cell:

\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if the
selection/reselection criteria are fulfilled.

\- else

\- If the field *intraFreqReselection* in field *cellAccessRelatedInfo*
in *SystemInformationBlockType1 (*or *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*
message or *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB)* message is set to
\"allowed\", the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if
re-selection criteria are fulfilled.

\- The UE shall exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds.

\- If the field *intraFreqReselection* in field *cellAccessRelatedInfo*
in *SystemInformationBlockType1* (or *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*
message or *SystemInformationBlockType1-NB*) message is set to \"not
allowed\" the UE shall not re-select a cell on the same frequency as the
barred cell;

\- The UE shall exclude the barred cell and the cells on the same
frequency as a candidate for cell selection/reselection for 300 seconds.

The cell selection of another cell may also include a change of RAT or,
if the previous and selected cell are both E-UTRA cells, a change of the
CN type.

### 5.3.2 Access control

For UE camping on E-UTRA connected to EPC, information on cell access
restrictions associated with the Access Classes or ACDC categories is
broadcast as system information, TS 36.331 \[3\]. For UE camping on
E-UTRA connected to 5GC, information on cell access restrictions
associated with Access Categories and Identities is broadcast as system
information, TS 36.331 \[3\].

For UE camping on E-UTRA connected to EPC, the UE shall ignore Access
Class or ACDC category related cell access restrictions when selecting a
cell to camp on, i.e. it shall not reject a cell for camping on because
access on that cell is not allowed for any of the Access Classes or ACDC
categories of the UE. A change of the indicated access restriction shall
not trigger cell reselection by the UE. For UE camping on E-UTRA
connected to 5GC, the UE shall ignore Access Category and Identity
related cell access restrictions for cell reselection. A change of the
indicated access restriction shall not trigger cell reselection by the
UE.

For UE camping on E-UTRA connected to EPC, access Class or ACDC category
related cell access restrictions shall be checked by the UE when
starting RRC connection establishment procedure as specified in TS
36.331 \[3\]. For UE camping on E-UTRA connected to 5GC, Access Category
and Identity related cell access restrictions shall be checked by the UE
for NAS initiated access attempts and RNAU as specified in TS 36.331
\[3\].

### 5.3.3 Emergency call

A restriction on emergency calls, if needed, is indicated by the field
*ac-BarringForEmergency* TS 36.331 \[3\]. If access class 10 is
indicated as barred in a cell, UEs with access class 0 to 9 or without
an IMSI are not allowed to initiate emergency calls in this cell. For
UEs with access classes 11 to 15, emergency calls are not allowed if
both access class 10 and the relevant access class (11 to 15) are
barred. Otherwise, emergency calls are allowed for those UEs.

Full details of operation under \"Access class barred list\" are
described in TS 22.011 \[4\].

For E-UTRA connected to 5GC, the restriction on emergency calls is
indicated by access control information of access category 2 under
unified access control TS 36.331 \[3\].

5.4 Tracking Area registration
------------------------------

In the UE, the AS shall report tracking area information to the NAS.

If the UE reads more than one PLMN identity in the current cell, the UE
shall report the found PLMN identities that make the cell suitable in
the tracking area information to NAS.

The NAS part of the location registration process is specified in TS
23.122 \[5\].

Actions for the UE AS upon reception of Location Registration reject are
specified in TS 22.011 \[4\] and TS 24.301 \[16\].

5.5 Support for manual CSG selection
------------------------------------

### 5.5.1 E-UTRA case

In the UE on request of NAS, the AS shall scan all RF channels in the
E-UTRA bands according to its capabilities to find available CSGs. On
each carrier, the UE shall at least search for the strongest cell, read
its system information and report available CSG ID(s) together with
their \"HNB name\" (if broadcast) and PLMN(s) to the NAS. The search for
available CSGs may be stopped on request of the NAS.

If NAS has selected a CSG and provided this selection to AS, the UE
shall search for an acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the
selected CSG to camp on.

### 5.5.2 UTRA case

Support for manual CSG selection in UTRA is described in TS 25.304
\[8\].

5.6 RAN-assisted WLAN interworking
----------------------------------

The purpose of this procedure is to facilitate RAN-assisted WLAN
interworking.

### 5.6.1 RAN assistance parameter handling in RRC\_IDLE

RAN assistance parameters may be provided to the UE in
*SystemInformationBlockType17* or in the *RRCConnectionReconfiguration*
message. RAN assistance parameters are used only if the UE is camped
normally.

### 5.6.2 Access network selection and traffic steering rules

The rules in this clause are only applicable for WLANs for which
identifiers has been signalled to the UE by E-UTRAN and the UE is
capable of RAN-assisted WLAN interworking based on access network
selection and traffic steering rules. Coexistence with ANDSF based WLAN
selection and traffic steering methods on the UE is based on mechanism
described in TS 23.402 \[25\]. The rules refer to the following
quantities:

  ------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ChannelUtilizationWLAN   WLAN channel utilization as defined in clause 8.4.2.30 in \[26\].
  BackhaulRateDlWLAN       WLAN DLBandwidth as defined in clause 9.1.2 in \[27\].
  BackhaulRateUlWLAN       WLAN ULBandwidth as defined in clause 9.1.2 in \[27\].
  WLANRSSI                 WLAN RSSI as defined in TS 36.214 \[7\].
  RSRPmeas                 Qrxlevmeas in RRC\_IDLE, and PCell RSRP in RRC\_CONNECTED as defined in TS 36.331 TS 36.331 \[3\].
  RSRQmeas                 Qqualmeas in RRC\_IDLE, and PCell RSRQ in RRC\_CONNECTED as defined in TS 36.331 TS 36.331 \[3\].
  ------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The upper layers in the UE shall be notified *(see TS 24.302 \[28\])*
when and for which WLAN(s), that matches all the provided identifiers
(in clause 5.6.3) for a specific entry in the list, the following
conditions 1 and 2 for steering traffic from E-UTRAN to WLAN are
satisfied for a time interval Tsteering~WLAN~:

1\. In the E-UTRAN serving cell:

\- RSRPmeas \< Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ LowP;~ or

\- RSRQmeas \< Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ LowQ;~

2\. In the target WLAN:

\- ChannelUtilizationWLAN \< Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ Low~; and

\- BackhaulRateDlWLAN \> Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ High~; and

\- BackhaulRateUlWLAN \> Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ High~; and

\- WLANRSSI \> Thresh~WLANRSSI,\ High~;

The UE shall not consider the metrics for which a threshold has not been
provided. The UE shall evaluate the E-UTRAN conditions on PCell only. If
not all metrics related to the provided thresholds can be acquired for a
WLAN BSS, the UE shall exclude that WLAN BSS from the evaluation of the
above rule.

The upper layers in the UE shall be notified *(see TS 24.302 \[28\])*
when the following conditions 3 or 4 for steering traffic from WLAN to
E-UTRAN are satisfied for a time interval Tsteering~WLAN~:

1\. In the source WLAN:

\- ChannelUtilizationWLAN \> Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ High~; or

\- BackhaulRateDlWLAN \< Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ Low~; or

\- BackhaulRateUlWLAN \< Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ Low~; or

\- WLANRSSI \< Thresh~WLANRSSI,\ Low~;

2\. In the target E-UTRAN cell:

\- RSRPmeas \> Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ HighP;~ and

\- RSRQmeas \> Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ HighQ;~

The UE shall not consider the metrics for which a threshold has not been
provided. The UE shall evaluate the E-UTRAN conditions on PCell only.

### 5.6.3 RAN assistance parameters definition

The following RAN assistance parameters for RAN-assisted WLAN
interworking may be provided:

**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ LowP~**

This specifies the RSRP threshold (in dBm) used by the UE for traffic
steering to from E-UTRAN to WLAN.

**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ HighP~**

This specifies the RSRP threshold (in dBm) used by the UE for traffic
steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.

**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ LowQ~**

This specifies the RSRQ threshold (in dB) used by the UE for traffic
steering from E-UTRAN to WLAN.

**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ HighQ~**

This specifies the RSRQ threshold (in dB) used by the UE for traffic
steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.

**Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ Low~**

This specifies the WLAN channel utilization (BSS load) threshold used by
the UE for traffic steering from E-UTRAN to WLAN.

**Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ High~**

This specifies the WLAN channel utilization (BSS load) threshold used by
the UE for traffic steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.

**Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ Low~**

This specifies the backhaul available downlink bandwidth threshold used
by the UE for traffic steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.

**Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ High~**

This specifies the backhaul available downlink bandwidth threshold used
by the UE for traffic steering from E-UTRAN to WLAN.

**Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ Low~**

This specifies the backhaul available uplink bandwidth threshold used by
the UE for traffic steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.

**Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ High~**

This specifies the backhaul available uplink bandwidth threshold used by
the UE for traffic steering from E-UTRAN to WLAN.

**Thresh~WLANRSSI,\ Low~**

This specifies the WLAN RSSI threshold used by the UE for traffic
steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.

**Thresh~WLANRSSI,\ High~**

This specifies the Beacon RSSI threshold used by the UE for traffic
steering from E-UTRAN to WLAN.

**Tsteering~WLAN~**

This specifies the timer value Tsteering~WLAN~ during which the rules
should be fulfilled before starting traffic steering between E-UTRAN and
WLAN.

**WLAN identifiers**

Only the SSIDs, BSSIDs and HESSIDs which are provided in this parameter
shall be considered for traffic steering between E-UTRAN and WLAN based
on the rules in this clause.

6 Reception of broadcast information
====================================

6.1 Reception of system information
-----------------------------------

The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in
changes in the received NAS system information.

The UE shall monitor the Paging Occasions (POs) as described in clause
7.1 to receive System Information change notifications in RRC\_IDLE.
Changes in the system information are indicated by the network using a
*Paging* message or Direct Indication information on MPDCCH and NPDCCH
respectively. When the *Paging* message or Direct Indication information
indicates system information changes then the UE shall re-acquire the
concerned system information, as specified in TS 36.331 \[3\].

6.2 Reception of MBMS
---------------------

A UE, except for BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage or NB-IoT UE,
interested to receive MBMS services provided using MBSFN transmission
shall apply the MCCH information acquisition procedure as specified in
TS 36.331 \[3\] to receive the MCCH information upon entering the
corresponding MBSFN area and upon receiving a notification that the MCCH
information has changed. A UE interested to receive MBMS services
provided using MBSFN transmission identifies if a service that it is
interested to receive is started or ongoing by receiving the MCCH
information, and then receives a MTCH corresponding to the identified
service.

A UE interested to receive MBMS services provided using SC-PTM
transmission shall apply the SC-MCCH information acquisition procedure
as specified in TS 36.331 \[3\] to receive the SC-MCCH information upon
entering a new cell and upon receiving a notification that the SC-MCCH
information has changed. A UE interested to receive MBMS services
provided using SC-PTM transmission identifies if a service that it is
interested to receive is started or ongoing by receiving the SC-MCCH
information, and then receives a SC-MTCH configured using the SC-MRB
establishment procedure in TS 36.331 \[3\] and using the DL-SCH
reception and SC-PTM DRX procedure as specified in TS 36.321 \[30\].

For BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage or NB-IoT UE interested to receive
MBMS services provided using SC-PTM transmission, in case of conflict,
reception of paging or establishment of a RRC connection for Mobile
Terminated Call and Mobile Originated Signalling takes precedence over
SC-PTM reception.

7 Paging
========

7.1 Discontinuous Reception for paging
--------------------------------------

The UE may use Discontinuous Reception (DRX) in idle mode in order to
reduce power consumption. One Paging Occasion (PO) is a subframe where
there may be P-RNTI transmitted on PDCCH or MPDCCH or, for NB-IoT on
NPDCCH addressing the paging message. In P-RNTI transmitted on MPDCCH
case, PO refers to the starting subframe of MPDCCH repetitions. In case
of P-RNTI transmitted on NPDCCH, PO refers to the starting subframe of
NPDCCH repetitions unless subframe determined by PO is not a valid
NB-IoT downlink subframe then the first valid NB-IoT downlink subframe
after PO is the starting subframe of the NPDCCH repetitions. The paging
message is same for both RAN initiated paging and CN initiated paging.

The UE initiates RRC Connection Resume procedure upon receiving RAN
paging. If the UE receives a CN initiated paging in RRC\_INACTIVE state,
the UE moves to RRC\_IDLE and informs NAS.

One Paging Frame (PF) is one Radio Frame, which may contain one or
multiple Paging Occasion(s). When DRX is used the UE needs only to
monitor one PO per DRX cycle.

One Paging Narrowband (PNB) is one narrowband, on which the UE performs
the paging message reception.

PF, PO, and PNB are determined by following formulae:

PF is given by following equation:

SFN mod T= (T div N)\*(UE\_ID mod N)

Index i\_s pointing to PO from subframe pattern defined in 7.2 will be
derived from following calculation:

i\_s = floor(UE\_ID/N) mod Ns

If P-RNTI is monitored on MPDCCH, the PNB is determined by the following
equation:

PNB = floor(UE\_ID/(N\*Ns)) mod Nn

> If P-RNTI is monitored on NPDCCH and the UE supports paging on a
> non-anchor carrier, and if paging configuration for non-anchor carrier
> is provided in system information, then the paging carrier is
> determined by the paging carrier with smallest index n (0 ≤ n ≤ Nn-1)
> fulfilling the following equation:

floor(UE\_ID/(N\*Ns)) mod W \< W(0) + W(1) + ... + W(n)

System Information DRX parameters stored in the UE shall be updated
locally in the UE whenever the DRX parameter values are changed in SI.
If the UE has no IMSI, for instance when making an emergency call
without USIM, the UE shall use as default identity UE\_ID = 0 in the PF,
i\_s, and PNB formulas above. If the UE has no 5G-S-TMSI, for instance
when the UE has not yet registered onto the network, the UE shall use as
default identity UE\_ID = 0 in the PF and i\_s formulas above.

The following Parameters are used for the calculation of the PF, i\_s,
PNB, wg, and the NB-IoT paging carrier:

\- T: DRX cycle of the UE.

In RRC\_IDLE state:

\- Except for NB-IoT: If a UE specific extended DRX value of 512 radio
frames is configured by upper layers according to 7.3, T =512.
Otherwise, T is determined by the shortest of the UE specific DRX value,
if allocated by upper layers, and a default DRX value broadcast in
system information. If UE specific DRX is not configured by upper
layers, the default value is applied.

In RRC\_INACTIVE state, if extended DRX is not configured by upper
layers as defined in 7.3:

\- T is determined by the shortest of the RAN paging cycle, if
configured, the UE specific paging cycle, if allocated by upper layers,
and the default paging cycle.

In RRC\_INACTIVE state if extended DRX is configured by upper layers
according to 7.3:

\- If a UE specific extended DRX value of 512 radio frames is
configured, T is determined by the shortest of the RAN paging cycle, if
configured, and 512 radio frames.

\- If a UE specific extended DRX value other than 512 radio frames is
configured:

\- During the PTW, T is determined by the shortest of the RAN paging
cycle, if configured, the UE specific paging cycle, if allocated by
upper layers, and the default paging cycle. Outside the PTW, T is
determined by the RAN paging cycle, if configured.

In RRC\_INACTIVE state, a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage uses the T
value applicable for RRC\_IDLE state for the determination of PNB and
i\_s.

For NB-IoT: If UE specific DRX value is allocated by upper layers and
minimum UE specific DRX value is broadcast in system information, T =
min (default DRX value, max (UE specific DRX value, minimum UE specific
DRX value broadcast in system information)). If UE specific DRX is not
configured by upper layers or if the minimum UE specific DRX value is
not broadcast in system information, the default DRX value is applied.

\- nB: 4T, 2T, T, T/2, T/4, T/8, T/16, T/32, T/64, T/128, and T/256, and
for NB-IoT also T/512, and T/1024.

\- N: min(T,nB)

\- Ns: max(1,nB/T)

\- Nn: number of paging narrowbands (for P-RNTI monitored on MPDCCH) or
paging carriers (for P-RNTI monitored on NPDCCH) determined as follows:

If UE monitors GWUS according to clause 7.5.1:

this is the number of paging narrowbands (paging carriers) that are
configured with GWUS.

else:

this is the number of paging narrowbands (paging carriers) provided in
system information.

\- UE\_ID:

If the UE supports E-UTRA connected to 5GC and NAS indicated to use 5GC
for the selected cell:

5G-S-TMSI mod 1024, if P-RNTI is monitored on PDCCH.

5G-S-TMSI mod 16384, if P-RNTI is monitored on NPDCCH or MPDCCH.

else

IMSI mod 1024, if P-RNTI is monitored on PDCCH.

IMSI mod 4096, if P-RNTI is monitored on NPDCCH.

> IMSI mod 16384, if P-RNTI is monitored on MPDCCH or if P-RNTI is
> monitored on NPDCCH and the UE supports paging on a non-anchor
> carrier, and if paging configuration for non-anchor carrier is
> provided in system information.

\- W(i): Weight for NB-IoT paging carrier i.

\- W: Total weight of all NB-IoT paging carriers, i.e. W = W(0) + W(1) +
... + W(Nn-1). If UE monitors GWUS according to clause 7.5.1, Total
weight of all NB-IoT paging carriers configured with GWUS.

IMSI is given as sequence of digits of type Integer (0..9), IMSI shall
in the formulae above be interpreted as a decimal integer number, where
the first digit given in the sequence represents the highest order
digit.

For example:

IMSI = 12 (digit1=1, digit2=2)

In the calculations, this shall be interpreted as the decimal integer
\"12\", not \"1x16+2 = 18\".

5G-S-TMSI is a 48 bit long bit string as defined in TS 23.501 \[39\].
5G-S-TMSI shall in the PF and i\_s formulae above be interpreted as a
binary number where the left most bit represents the most significant
bit.

7.2 Subframe Patterns
---------------------

FDD:

\- If P-RNTI is transmitted on PDCCH or NPDCCH, or if P-RNTI is
transmitted on MPDCCH with system bandwidth \> 3MHz:

  Ns   PO when i\_s=0   PO when i\_s=1   PO when i\_s=2   PO when i\_s=3
  ---- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ----------------
  1    9                N/A              N/A              N/A
  2    4                9                N/A              N/A
  4    0                4                5                9

\- If P-RNTI is transmitted on MPDCCH with system bandwidth of 1.4MHz
and 3MHz:

  Ns   PO when i\_s=0   PO when i\_s=1   PO when i\_s=2   PO when i\_s=3
  ---- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ----------------
  1    5                N/A              N/A              N/A
  2    5                5                N/A              N/A
  4    5                5                5                5

TDD (all UL/DL configurations):

\- If P-RNTI is transmitted on PDCCH or NPDCCH, or if P-RNTI is
transmitted on MPDCCH with system bandwidth \> 3MHz:

  Ns   PO when i\_s=0   PO when i\_s=1   PO when i\_s=2   PO when i\_s=3
  ---- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ----------------
  1    0                N/A              N/A              N/A
  2    0                5                N/A              N/A
  4    0                1                5                6

\- If P-RNTI is transmitted on MPDCCH with system bandwidth of 1.4MHz
and 3MHz:

  Ns   PO when i\_s=0   PO when i\_s=1   PO when i\_s=2   PO when i\_s=3
  ---- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ----------------
  1    1                N/A              N/A              N/A
  2    1                6                N/A              N/A
  4    1                1                6                6

7.3 Paging in extended DRX
--------------------------

The UE may be configured by upper layers with an extended DRX (eDRX)
cycle T~eDRX~. Except for NB-IoT, the UE may operate in extended DRX
only if the UE is configured by upper layers and the cell indicates
support for eDRX in System Information. For NB-IoT, the UE may operate
in extended DRX only if the UE is configured by upper layers. If the UE
is configured with a T~eDRX~ cycle of 512 radio frames, it monitors POs
as defined in 7.1 with parameter T = 512. Otherwise, a UE configured
with eDRX monitors POs as defined in 7.1 (i.e, based on the upper layer
configured DRX value and a default DRX value determined in 7.1 or if the
UE is in RRC-INACTIVE based on the upper layer configured DRX
value,default DRX cycle and RAN paging cycle determined in 7.1), during
a periodic Paging Time Window (PTW) configured for the UE or until a
paging message including the UE\'s NAS identity is received for the UE
during the PTW, whichever is earlier. The PTW is UE-specific and is
determined by a Paging Hyperframe (PH), a starting position within the
PH (PTW\_start) and an ending position (PTW\_end). PH, PTW\_start and
PTW\_end are given by the following formulae:

The PH is the H-SFN satisfying the following equation:

H-SFN mod T~eDRX,H~= (UE\_ID\_H mod T~eDRX,H~), where

\- UE\_ID\_H:

\- 10 most significant bits of the Hashed ID, if P-RNTI is monitored on
PDCCH or MPDCCH

\- 12 most significant bits of the Hashed ID, if P-RNTI is monitored on
NPDCCH

\- T ~eDRX,H~ : eDRX cycle of the UE in Hyper-frames, (T~eDRX,H~ =1, 2,
..., 256 Hyper-frames) (for NB-IoT, T~eDRX,H~ =2, ..., 1024
Hyper-frames) and configured by upper layers.

> PTW\_start denotes the first radio frame of the PH that is part of the
> PTW and has SFN satisfying the following equation:

SFN = 256\* i~eDRX~, where

\- i~eDRX~ = floor(UE\_ID\_H /T~eDRX,H~) mod 4

PTW\_end is the last radio frame of the PTW and has SFN satisfying the
following equation:

SFN = (PTW\_start + L\*100 - 1) mod 1024, where

\- L = Paging Time Window length (in seconds) configured by upper layers

Hashed ID is defined as follows:

> Hashed\_ID is Frame Check Sequence (FCS) for the bits b31, b30..., b0
> of S-TMSI or 5G-S-TMSI. 5G-S-TMSI is used for Hashed-ID if the UE
> supports connection to 5GC and NAS indicated to use 5GC for the
> selected cell.
>
> S-TMSI = \<b39, b38, ..., b0\> as defined in TS 23.003 \[35\]
>
> 5G-S-TMSI = \<b47, b46, ..., b0\> as defined in TS 23.003 \[35\].
>
> The 32-bit FCS shall be the ones complement of the sum (modulo 2) of
> Y1 and Y2, where

\- Y1 is the remainder of x^k^ (x^31^ + x^30^ + x^29^ + x^28^ + x^27^ +
x^26^ + x^25^ + x^24^ + x^23^ + x^22^ + x^21^ + x^20^ + x^19^ + x^18^ +
x^17^ + x^16^ + x^15^ + x^14^ + x^13^ + x^12^ + x^11^ + x^10^ + x^9^ +
x^8^ + x^7^ + x^6^ + x^5^ + x^4^ + x^3^ + x^2^ + x^1^ + 1) divided
(modulo 2) by the generator polynomial x^32^ + x^26^ + x^23^ + x^22^ +
x^16^ + x^12^ + x^11^ + x^10^ + x^8^ + x^7^ + x^5^ + x^4^ + x^2^ + x +
1, where k is 32; and

\- Y2 is the remainder of Y3 divided (modulo 2) by the generator
polynomial x^32^ + x^26^ + x^23^ + x^22^ + x^16^ + x^12^ + x^11^ + x^10^
+ x^8^ + x^7^ + x^5^ + x^4^ + x^2^ + x + 1, where Y3 is the product of
x^32^ by \"b31, b30..., b0 of S-TMSI or 5G-S-TMSI\", i.e., Y3 is the
generator polynomial x^32^ (b31\*x^31^ + b30\*x^30^ + ... + b0\*1).

NOTE: The Y1 is 0xC704DD7B for any S-TMSI or 5G-S-TMSI value. An example
of hashed ID calculation is in Annex B.

7.4 Paging with Wake Up Signal
------------------------------

Paging with Wake Up Signal is only used in the cell in which the UE most
recently entered RRC\_IDLE triggered by:

\- reception of *RRCEarlyDataComplete*; or

\- reception of *RRCConnectionRelease* not including *noLastCellUpdate*;
or

\- reception of *RRCConnectionRelease* including *noLastCellUpdate* and
the UE was using (G)WUS in this cell prior to this RRC connection
attempt.

If the UE is in RRC\_IDLE, the UE is not using GWUS according to clause
7.5 and the UE supports WUS and WUS configuration is provided in system
information, the UE shall monitor WUS using the WUS parameters provided
in System Information. When DRX is used and the UE detects WUS the UE
shall monitor the following PO. When extended DRX is used and the UE
detects WUS the UE shall monitor the following *numPOs* POs or until a
paging message including the UE\'s NAS identity is received, whichever
is earlier. If the UE does not detect WUS the UE is not required to
monitor the following PO(s). If the UE missed a WUS occasion (e.g. due
to cell reselection), it monitors every PO until the start of next WUS
or until the PTW ends, whichever is earlier.

\- *numPOs* = Number of consecutive Paging Occasions (PO) mapped to one
WUS provided in system information where (*numPOs*≥1).

The WUS configuration, provided in system information, includes
time-offset between end of WUS and start of the first PO of the *numPOs*
POs UE is required to monitor. The timeoffset in subframes, used to
calculate the start of a subframe *g*0 (see TS 36.213 \[6\]), is defined
as follows:

\- for UE using DRX, it is the signalled *timeoffsetDRX*;

\- for UE using eDRX, it is the signalled *timeoffset-eDRX-Short* if
*timeoffset-eDRX-Long* is not broadcasted;

\- for UE using eDRX, it is the value determined according to Table
7.4-1 if *timeoffset-eDRX-Long* is broadcasted

Table 7.4-1: Determination of GAP between end of WUS and associated PO

                                          *timeoffset-eDRX-Long*                                 
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------- -------------------------
                                          *1000ms*                     *2000ms*                  
  *UE Reported wakeUpSignalMinGap-eDRX*   ***40ms or not reported***   *timeoffset-eDRX-Short*   *timeoffset-eDRX-Short*
                                          ***240ms***                  *timeoffset-eDRX-Short*   *timeoffset-eDRX-Short*
                                          ***1000ms***                 *timeoffset-eDRX-Long*    *timeoffset-eDRX-Long*
                                          ***2000ms***                 *timeoffset-eDRX-Short*   *timeoffset-eDRX-Long*

The timeoffset is used to determine the actual subframe *g*0 as follows
(taking into consideration resultant SFN and/or H-SFN wrap-around of
this computation):

*g*0 = PO -- timeoffset, where PO is the Paging Occasion subframe as
defined in clause 7.1

For UE using eDRX, the same timeoffset applies between the end of WUS
and associated first PO of the *numPOs POs* for all the WUS occurrences
for a PTW.

The timeoffset, *g*0, is used to calculate the start of the WUS as
defined in TS 36.213 \[6\].

7.5 Paging with Group Wake Up Signal
------------------------------------

### 7.5.1 General

Paging with Group Wake Up Signal is only used in the cell in which the
UE most recently entered RRC\_IDLE triggered by:

\- reception of *RRCEarlyDataComplete*; or

\- reception of *RRCConnectionRelease* not including *noLastCellUpdate*;
or

\- reception of *RRCConnectionRelease* including *noLastCellUpdate* and
the UE was using (G)WUS in this cell prior to this RRC connection
attempt.

When all of the following conditions are met then the UE shall monitor
GWUS using the GWUS parameters provided in system information:

\- the UE is in RRC\_IDLE;

\- the UE supports GWUS;

\- GWUS configuration (*gwus-Config*) is provided in system information;

\- *groupAlternation* is present in g*wus-Config* and UE supports **GWUS
with group resource alternation**; or

\- *groupAlternation* is not present in *gwus-Config*.

A UE supporting GWUS can be configured to monitor a WUS group and a
common WUS. Upon detecting either of them, UE shall monitor POs as
defined in clause 7.4.

For NB-IoT, E-UTRAN may configure up to 2 WUS resources (numbered 0 and
1). The timeoffset, *g*0, from the end of WUS resource 0 to the start of
corresponding PO is determined as defined in clause 7.4. When both
*wus-Config* and g*wus-Config* are present, WUS resource 0 shares radio
resources with *wus-Config*.The timeoffset from the end of WUS resource
1 to the start of corresponding PO is sum of the timeoffset *g*0 and the
maximum WUS duration.

After the UE has determined the applicable gap between end of WUS
resource and associated PO as specified in clause 7.4, UE selects the
WUS group set for the corresponding gap as specified in clause 7.5.2.
From the selected WUS group set, UE selects one WUS group as defined in
clause 7.5.3. If *groupAlternation* is not present in *gwus-Config*, the
UE monitors the selected WUS group with the corresponding timeoffset for
each PO. If *groupAlternation* is present in *gwus-Config* and UE
supports **GWUS with group resource alternation**, the UE determines the
WUS group to monitor for each PO and the corresponding timeoffset as
specified in clause 7.5.4.

For BL UEs and UEs in enhanced coverage, E-UTRAN may configure up to 4
WUS resources. The resource number, time and frequency location of these
resources is determined as specified in clause 7.5.5.

### 7.5.2 WUS group sets selection

The total number of WUS groups, maxWG, configured for a gap is
determined with the following equation:

$${maxWG =}\ \sum_{i = 0}^{maxWR - 1}{\text{numGroupsList}\left\lbrack i \right\rbrack}$$

where:

*- maxWR* is the total number of WUS resources configured for the gap.

*- numGroupsList\[i\]* is the number of WUS groups configured for WUS
resource i, *provided in gwus-Config, for the gap.*

Using *numGroupsList* for the gap*,* the UE builds the list of WUS
groups as an ordered list of pairs ($N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$,
$N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}}$) where the first entry corresponds to
the first WUS group on the first configured WUS resource, the second
entry corresponds to the second WUS group on the first configured WUS
resource and so on, with the last entry corresponds to the last WUS
group on the last configured WUS resource.

For a NB-IoT UE, if *resourcePosition* provided in *gwus-Config* is set
to *secondary,* $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ = 0 is not used and
the first entry in the list corresponds to
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ = 1. Otherwise,
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ is the index of the WUS resources in
*numGroupsList*.

For a BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage, UE determines
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$of the configured resources as
specified in clause 7.5.4.

If *probThreshList* is present in *gwus-Config*, the UE determines the
WUS group sets as defined in Table 7.5.2.1. The total number of WUS
group sets is equal to the number of entries in *probThreshList* + 1.
The WUS groups are first assigned to WUS group set 1, followed by WUS
group set 2, and so on. The UE determines the WUS group set
corresponding to its probability P~NAS~, if configured, as defined in
Table 7.5.2-1. If P~NAS~ is not configured, the UE selects the WUS group
set with the index equal to the number of entries in *probThreshList* +
1.

Table 7.5.2-1: WUS group set definition when *probThreshList* is
configured

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| WUS group set  | probThreshList | WUS group      |                |
|                |                | index in WUS   |                |
|                |                | groups list    |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                |                | Lower bound    | Upper bound    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | P~NAS~ ≤       | 0              | N~th1~ - 1     |
|                | Thresh~1~      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2              | Thresh~1~ \<   | N~th1~         | N~th1~ +       |
|                | P~NAS~ ≤       |                | N~th2~ - 1     |
|                | Thresh~2~      |                |                |
|                | (Note)         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 3              | Thresh~2~ \<   | N~th1~ +       | N~th1~ +       |
|                | P~NAS~ ≤       | N~th2~         | N~th2~ +       |
|                | Thresh~3~      |                | N~th3~ - 1     |
|                | (Note)         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 4              | P~NAS~ \>      | N~th1~ +       | maxWG - 1      |
|                | Thresh~3~      | N~th2~ +       |                |
|                |                | N~th3~         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| where          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Thresh~i~ is   |                |                |                |
| the value      |                |                |                |
| signalled in   |                |                |                |
| the i^th^      |                |                |                |
| entry of       |                |                |                |
| *p             |                |                |                |
| robThreshList* |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| N~thi~ is the  |                |                |                |
| value          |                |                |                |
| signalled in   |                |                |                |
| the i^th^      |                |                |                |
| entry of       |                |                |                |
| *groupsF       |                |                |                |
| orServiceList* |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| *Note:* *When  |                |                |                |
| the total      |                |                |                |
| number of WUS  |                |                |                |
| group sets is  |                |                |                |
| less than 4,   |                |                |                |
| the upper      |                |                |                |
| bound for the  |                |                |                |
| WUS group set  |                |                |                |
| with highest   |                |                |                |
| index is maxWG |                |                |                |
| - 1.*          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

If *probThreshList* is not present in *gwus-Config*, there is only one
WUS group set containing all the WUS groups configured in
*numGroupsList*. The total number of WUS groups is maxWG.

### 7.5.3 WUS group selection

After selection of the WUS group set as specified in clause 7.5.2, the
UE selects the WUS group to monitor as below.

For BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage, the UE determines wg with
following equation:

$$wg = floor\left( \frac{\text{floor}\left( \frac{UE\_ ID}{{N \times N}_{s}} \right)}{N_{n}} \right)\text{\ mod\ }N_{w}$$

For NB-IoT, the UE determines wg with following equation:

$$wg = floor\left( \frac{UE\_ ID}{{N \times N}_{s} \times W} \right)\text{\ mod\ }N_{w}$$

where:

\- UE\_ID, N, N~s~, N~n~ and W are defined in clause 7.1.

\- N~w~ is the number of WUS groups in the selected WUS group set.

\- wg is the index of the WUS group in the selected WUS group set,
determined as defined in clause 7.5.2, 0 .. N~w~-1.

If *probThreshList* is not present, WG = wg. If *probThreshList* is
present, the UE determines WG, the index of the corresponding WUS group
within the WUS groups list, as defined in Table 7.5.3-1.

Table 7.5.3-1: Index of the WUS group to monitor

  Selected WUS group set                   WG
  ---------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  1                                        wg
  2                                        wg + N~th1~
  3                                        wg + N~th1\ +~ N~th2~
  4                                        wg + N~th1\ +~ N~th2\ +~ N~th3~
  Where N~thi~ is defined in table 7.5.1   

The entry corresponding to WG in the WUS groups list defined in clause
7.5.2 provides ($N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$,
$N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}})\ $as specified in TS 36.213 \[6\].

### 7.5.4 WUS Group Alternation

If *groupAlternation* is present in *gwus-Config,* the UE determines the
WUS group to monitor for the current PO as follows:

\- if *probThreshList* is not present in *gwus-Config* and
*commonSequence* is set to *g0*:

$$WG_{\text{current}} = \left( \text{WG}_{\text{initial}} + \ G_{\min} \cdot floor\left( \frac{SFN + 1024*H\text{-}\text{SFN}}{\text{Tcell}} \right) \right)\text{mod\ maxWG}$$

where:

\- T~cell~ is the default DRX cycle for the cell.

\- SFN is the SFN corresponding to the PO.

\- H-SFN is the H-SFN corresponding to the PO.

\- maxWG is the total number of WUS groups configured in *numGroupsList*
for the gap.

\- G~min~ is the lowest number of WUS groups configured amongst all WUS
resources for the gap.

\- WG~current~ is the index of the WUS group to monitor for the current
PO.

\- WG~initial~ is the index, WG, of the WUS group determined in clause
7.5.3.

The entry corresponding to WG~current~ in the WUS groups list defined in
clause 7.5.2 provides ($N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$,
$N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}})\ $as specified in TS 36.213 \[6\].

\- else:

$$m_{\text{current}} = \left( m_{\text{initial}} + floor\left( \frac{SFN + 1024*H\text{-}\text{SFN}}{\text{Tcell}} \right) \right)\text{mod~maxWR}$$

where:

\- T~cell~ is the default DRX cycle for the cell.

\- SFN is the SFN corresponding to the PO.

\- H-SFN is the H-SFN corresponding to the PO.

\- maxWR is the total number of WUS resources configured in
*numGroupsList* for the gap.

\- m~initial~ is defined based on
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}\ $given in the entry corresponding to
the index WG determined in clause 7.5.3:

\- For a NB-IoT UE : m~initial~$\  = \ N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$

\- For a BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage:

\- if $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$= 0 is used for GWUS:

\- m~initial~$\  = N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ - 1

\- else:

\- m~initial~$\  = N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$

\- m~current~ is used to determine $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}\ $of
the WUS group to monitor for the current PO as follows:

\- For a NB-IoT UE :$\ N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}\ $= m~current~.

\- For a BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage:

\- if $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}} = 0$ is used for GWUS:

\- $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}\ $= m~current~

\- else:

\- $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}\ $= m~current~ +1

$N_{\text{group}}^{\text{WUS}}$ of the WUS group to monitor for the
current PO is given in the entry corresponding to the index WG
determined in clause 7.5.3.

### 7.5.5 WUS Resource Location for BL UEs and UEs in Enhanced coverage

A BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage determines the time/frequency
location of WUS resources based on the number of configured WUS
resources and the frequency location of WUS resource 0
($N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}} = 0)$. *If wus-Config is present,
frequency location for WUS resource 0 is defined by frequencyLocation
parameter in wus-Config. Otherwise, frequency location for WUS resource
0 is defined by resourceLocationWithoutWUS in gwus-Config.* The
frequency location of other WUS resources (i.e., WUS resource 1, 2, 3),
based on frequency location of WUS resource 0, is given in Table
7.5.5-1.

Table 7.5.5-1: WUS resource frequency location

+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+
| WUS resource  | Frequency     |               |               |    |
|               | location of   |               |               |    |
| ($\ma         | WUS resource  |               |               |    |
| thbf{N}_{\tex | ID 0          |               |               |    |
| t{ID}}^{\text |               |               |               |    |
| {resource}}$) |               |               |               |    |
+===============+===============+===============+===============+====+
|               | n0            | n2            | n4 (NOTE 1)   |    |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+
|               |               | NB frequency  | NB frequency  |    |
|               |               | \< centre     | \> centre     |    |
|               |               | frequency     | frequency     |    |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+
| WUS resource  | n2            | n4            | n0            | n2 |
| 1,3           |               |               |               |    |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+
| WUS resource  | n0            | n2            | n2            | n4 |
| 2             |               |               |               |    |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+
| WUS resource  | n4            | n0            | n4            | n0 |
| 2             |               |               |               |    |
|               |               |               |               |    |
| (NOTE 2)      |               |               |               |    |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+
| NOTE 1: This  |               |               |               |    |
| column is     |               |               |               |    |
| applicable if |               |               |               |    |
| *wus-Config*  |               |               |               |    |
| is present.   |               |               |               |    |
|               |               |               |               |    |
| NOTE 2: This  |               |               |               |    |
| row is        |               |               |               |    |
| applicable if |               |               |               |    |
| *resourceLoc  |               |               |               |    |
| ationWithWUS* |               |               |               |    |
| is            |               |               |               |    |
| *             |               |               |               |    |
| primary3FDM*. |               |               |               |    |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+

The timeoffset, *g*0, from the end of WUS resource 0 and WUS resource 1
to the start of corresponding PO is determined as defined in clause 7.4.
Except when *resourceLocationWithWUS* is set to *primary3FDM* , the
timeoffset from the end of WUS resource 2 and WUS resource 3 to the
start of corresponding PO is sum of the timeoffset *g*0 and the maximum
WUS duration. When *resourceLocationWithWUS* is set to *primary3FDM*,
the timeoffset for WUS resource 2 is same as WUS resource 0 and 1.

The resource pattern ID (rp-ID) which indicates the WUS resources
applicable for GWUS is derived based on *resourceMappingPattern and the
configured number of WUS resources as follows:*

If *resourceLocationWithWUS* is configured:

rp-ID = 2\*(maxWR - 1) if *resourceLocationWithWUS* is set to *primary.*

rp-ID = 2\*maxWR - 1 if *resourceLocationWithWUS* is set to *secondary.*

rp-ID = 7 if *resourceLocationWithWUS* is set to *primary3FDM*.

If *resourceLocationWithoutWUS* is configured:

rp-ID = 2\*(maxWR - 1)

where maxWR is the total number of WUS resources configured in
*numGroupsList* for the gap.

The WUS resource IDs corresponding to the resource pattern ID are
determined as defined in Table 7.5.5-2.

Table 7.5.5-2: WUS resources applicable for Resource Pattern

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th></th>
<th><em>Resource Pattern ID</em></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>7</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>WUS resource</p>
<p><em>(</em><span class="math inline"><em>N</em><sub>ID</sub><sup>resource</sup></span><em>)</em></p></td>
<td>0</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>X</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

If $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ = 0 is not used, the first entry in
the *numGroupsList* corresponds to $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ =
1. Otherwise, $N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{resource}}$ is the index of the WUS
resources in *numGroupsList*.

7.6 NRS presence on non-anchor paging carrier in NB-IoT
-------------------------------------------------------

For FDD, when *nrs-NonAnchorConfig* is signalled in system information,
the POs with associated NRS are determined using the DRX parameters
broadcast in *systeminformationBlockType2-NB*:

\- T is the value of *defaultPagingCycle* broadcast in system
information.

\- nB is the value corresponding to *nB* broadcast in system
information: 4T, 2T, T, T/2, T/4, T/8, T/16, T/32, T/64, T/128, T/256,
T/512, and T/1024.

The POs are determined by:

\- Paging Frame (PF) given by: SFN mod T= (T div N) \* k

where:

\- N: min(T, nB)

\- k: 0, 1, .., N-1

\- Paging subframe given by index i\_s

where:

\- Index i\_s: values pointing to a subframe for which a PO is defined
in the row referenced by Ns in clause 7.2.

\- Ns: max(1, nB/T)

The POs with associated NRS are determined as follows:

\- if nB is equal to 4T, 2T, T or T/2:

POs for which R = 1 have associated NRS

where:

R = (PO\_Index+ Offset) mod 2

where:

\- PO\_Index = (SFN \* nB/T + i\_s) mod nB

\- Offset = (FLOOR ((SFN + 1024\*H-SFN) / T)) mod 2

\- SFN is the SFN corresponding to the PO

\- H-SFN is the H-SFN corresponding to the PO

\- i\_s is the index i\_s corresponding to the PO

\- else:

all POs have associated NRS.

8 Logged measurements
=====================

The UE may be configured to perform logging of measurement results in
RRC\_IDLE mode with the *LoggedMeasurementConfiguration* message as
specified in TS 36.331\[3\]*.* This configuration *is valid while the
logging duration timer is running.*

If the configuration of logged measurements is valid, *the UE shall
perform logging of measurement results if all of the following
conditions are met:*

\- The UE is in *camped normally* state in RRC\_IDLE mode;

\- The RPLMN of the UE is the same as the RPLMN at the point of time of
*LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message reception*, or is present in the
*plmn-IdentityList* (see TS 36.331 \[3\]) if configured*;*

*- The UE is* camped on a cell belonging to the *areaConfiguration* (see
TS 36.331\[3\]), if configured;

\- The UE is camped on the RAT where the logged measurement
configuration was received;

> \- The UE receives MBMS service from MBSFN area(s) belonging to
> ***targetMBSFN-AreaList***, if included in the logged measurement
> configuration;
>
> \- The IDC capable UE does not detect the presence of in-device
> coexistence interference.

If the configuration of logged measurements is valid, but the UE is in
*any cell* selection state in RRC\_IDLE mode, the UE perform logging of
available information (i.e. at least indicator on *any cell selection*
state and time stamp).

If the configuration of logged MBSFN measurements is valid, the UE shall
perform logging of measurement results in RRC\_CONNECTED in addition to
RRC\_IDLE, as described in TS 36.331 \[3\].

Otherwise, the logging of measurement results shall be suspended.

NOTE: Even if logging of measurement results is suspended, the logging
duration timer and time stamp will continue, and the logged measurement
configuration and corresponding log are kept.

9 Accessibility measurements
============================

The UE logs failure information when the RRC connection establishment
procedure fails as specified in TS 36.331 \[3\].

10 Mobility History Information
===============================

The UE stores the history of serving cells as specified in TS
36.331\[3\].

11 Sidelink operation
=====================

11.1 Sidelink communication and V2X sidelink communication and NR sidelink communication
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The UE may transmit or receive sidelink communication if it fulfils the
condition(s) defined in TS 36.331 \[3\], clause 5.10.1a. The UE may
transmit or receive V2X sidelink communication if it fulfils the
condition(s) defined in TS 36.331 \[3\], clause 5.10.1d. When UE is
in-coverage for sidelink operation as defined in clause 11.4, the UE may
perform the sidelink communication according to
*SystemInformationBlockType18* or perform the V2X sidelink communication
according to *SystemInformationBlockType21* or
*SystemInformationBlockType26,* and when out-of-coverage for sidelink,
the UE may perform the sidelink communication according to
*SL-Preconfiguration* or perform V2X sidelink communication according to
*SL-V2X-Preconfiguration* or according to *SystemInformationBlockType21*
or *SystemInformationBlockType26* of the cell on the frequency which
provides inter-carrier V2X sidelink configuration, as specified in TS
36.331 \[3\]. The UE shall not perform V2X sidelink communication
according to *SL-V2X-Preconfiguration* if the UE detects a cell
providing V2X sidelink configuration or inter-carrier V2X sidelink
configuration for the frequency UE is interested to perform V2X sidelink
communication on.

The UE may transmit or receive NR sidelink communication if it fulfills
the condition(s) defined in TS 38.331 \[37\], clause 5.8.2. When UE is
in-coverage for sidelink operation as defined in clause 11.4, the UE may
perform NR sidelink communication according to
*SystemInformationBlockType12* of the cell on an E-UTRAN frequency.

11.2 Sidelink discovery
-----------------------

The UE may transmit sidelink discovery if it fulfils the condition(s)
defined in TS 36.331 \[3\], clauses 5.10.1b and 5.10.1c. When UE is
in-coverage for sidelink as defined in clause 11.4, the UE may perform
the sidelink discovery according to *SystemInformationBlockType19*, and
when out-of-coverage for sidelink as defined in clause 11.4, the UE may
perform the sidelink discovery according to *SL-Preconfiguration*, as
specified in TS 36.331 \[3\].

NOTE: Sidelink discovery reception in idle mode is up to UE
implementation.

11.3 Sidelink synchronisation
-----------------------------

The UE may perform sidelink synchronisation according to
*SystemInformationBlockType18* for sidelink communication,
*SystemInformationBlockType19* for sidelink discovery or
*SystemInformationBlockType21* for V2X sidelink communication, as
specified in TS 36.331 \[3\].

11.4 Cell selection and reselection for sidelink
------------------------------------------------

The requirements defined in this clause for sidelink operation apply for
UEs in RRC\_IDLE and in RRC\_CONNECTED.

When UE is interested to perform sidelink communication or sidelink
discovery announcement on non-serving frequency, it shall perform
measurements on that frequency for cell selection and intra-frequency
reselection purpose in accordance with TS 36.133 \[10\]. When UE is
interested to perform V2X sidelink communication on non-serving
frequency, it may perform measurements on that frequency or the
frequencies which can provide inter-carrier V2X sidelink configuration
for that frequency for cell selection and intra-frequency reselection
purpose in accordance with TS 36.133 \[10\]. When UE is interested to
perform NR sidelink communication on non-serving frequency, it may
perform measurements on that frequency or the frequencies which can
provide inter-carrier NR sidelink configuration for that frequency for
cell selection and reselection purpose in accordance with TS
36.133\[10\].

If the UE detects at least one cell on the frequency which UE is
configured to perform sidelink operation on fulfilling the S criterion
in accordance with clause 11.4.1, it shall consider itself to be
in-coverage for sidelink operation on that frequency. If the UE cannot
detect any cell on that frequency meeting the S criterion, it shall
consider itself to be out-of-coverage for sidelink operation on that
frequency.

If the UE detects at least one cell on the frequency which UE is
configured to perform NR sidelink communication on fulfilling the S
criterion in accordance with clause 11.4.1, it shall consider itself to
be in-coverage for NR sidelink communication on that frequency. If the
UE cannot detect any cell on that frequency meeting the S criterion, it
shall consider itself to be out-of-coverage for NR sidelink
communication on that frequency.

If the UE has selected a cell on a non-serving frequency for sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication or sidelink discovery
announcement, it shall perform additional intra-frequency reselection
process to select a better cell for sidelink operation on that frequency
in accordance with clause 11.4.1.

If the UE has selected a cell on a non-serving frequency for NR sidelink
communication, it shall perform additional reselection process to select
a better cell for sidelink operation in accordance with clause 11.4.1.

NOTE 1: The UE may consider the carrier pre-configured for sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication, or the frequencies
pre-configured for providing inter-carrier V2X sidelink configuration to
have the highest cell reselection priority in accordance with clause
5.2.4.1.

NOTE 2: If the frequency the UE is configured to perform sidelink
communication on is a serving frequency, the UE uses the serving cell on
that frequency for the sidelink operation.

### 11.4.1 Parameters used for cell selection and reselection triggered for sidelink

When evaluating S criterion, R criterion (ranking) or inter-frequency
cell reselection criterion, as defined in clause 5.2.3.2, clause 5.2.4.6
and clause 5.2.4.5 respectively, for cell selection/reselection
triggered for sidelink communication or V2X sidelink communication or
sidelink discovery announcement or NR sidelink communication on a
non-serving frequency, UE shall perform the evaluation as follows:

\- if the UE intends to perform sidelink discovery announcement and it
is configured with *discCellSelectionInfo* applicable for that frequency
as specified in TS 36.331 \[3\], the UE shall use cell
selection/reselection parameters included in the *discCellSelectionInfo*
for the evaluation, and for a parameter used in the evaluation but not
included in the *discCellSelectionInfo* applicable for that frequency,
UE shall apply zero value.

\- else, the UE shall use cell selection/reselection parameters
broadcast by the concerned cell (i.e. selected cell for the sidelink
operation) for the evaluation.

12. General description of UE camping on E-UTRA connected to 5GC
================================================================

The functions listed below are applicable to UE camping on E-UTRA
connected to 5GC:

*- RAN paging (only applicable to RRC\_INACTIVE state)*

*- Unified Access Control*

The functions listed below are not applicable to UE camping on E-UTRA
connected to 5GC:

*- 5.5 Support for manual CSG selection*

*- 5.6 RAN-assisted WLAN interworking*

*- 6.2 Reception of MBMS*

*- 7.3 Paging in extended DRX (except for BL UE, UE in enhanced coverage
or NB-IoT UE)*

*- 8 Logged measurements*

*- 9 Accessibility measurements*

*- 11 Sidelink operation*

########  Annex A (informative): Void

########  Annex B (informative): Example of Hashed ID Calculation using 32-bit FCS

**Inputs:**

\- Least significant bits of S-TMSI: 0x12341234

\- Generator polynomial: 0x104C11DB7 (1 0000 0100 1100 0001 0001 1101
1011 0111)

**Procedure to Calculate Hashed ID:**

step a)

\- k = 32

\- numerator: 0xFFFF FFFF 0000 0000

\- denominator: 0x1 04C1 1DB7

\- remainder Y1 = 0xC704DD7B

step b)

\- numerator: 0x1234 1234 0000 0000

\- denominator: 0x1 04C1 1DB7

\- remainder Y2 = 0x1D66F1A6

**Hashed\_ID** = FCS = ones complement of (remainder Y1 XOR remainder
Y2)

= ones complement of (0xC704DD7B XOR 0x1D66F1A6)

= negation of (0xDA622CDD)

**= 0x259DD322**

######## Annex C (informative): Change history

  -------------------- -------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                       
  Date                 TSG \#   TSG Doc.    CR     Rev   Cat   Subject/Comment                                                                                                                                             New version
  2007-06                                                      Agreed text proposals from TSG RAN2\#58bis meeting                                                                                                          0.0.1
  2007-09              RP-37    RP-070687                      Presented for information at TSG RAN-37                                                                                                                     1.0.0
  2007-11              RP-38    RP-070915                      Presented for approval at TSG RAN-38                                                                                                                        2.0.0
                       RP-38    \-                             Approved at TSG RAN-38 and placed under change control                                                                                                      8.0.0
  2008-03              RP-39    RP-080193   0001   1           CR to 36.304 on Miscellaneous corrections                                                                                                                   8.1.0
  2008-05              RP-40    RP-080408   0002   \-          Add RAT specific Treselection parameters for CDMA HRPD and 1xRTT                                                                                            8.2.0
                       RP-40    RP-080408   0003   1           Paging Subframe Patterns for FDD and TDD and paging parameters clarification                                                                                8.2.0
                       RP-40    RP-080408   0004   1           Editorial corrections to 36.304                                                                                                                             8.2.0
                       RP-40    RP-080408   0005   \-          PLMN selection ping-pong control                                                                                                                            8.2.0
  2008-09              RP-41    RP-080689   0006   1           CR on Considerations on various open items in 36.304                                                                                                        8.3.0
                       RP-41    RP-080689   0007   1           CSG related correction to 36.304                                                                                                                            8.3.0
                       RP-41    RP-080689   0008   1           Clarification of the medium mobility state criteria                                                                                                         8.3.0
                       RP-41    RP-080689   0009   \-          Support for Manual CSG ID Selection                                                                                                                         8.3.0
                       RP-41    RP-080689   0010   \-          USIM less paging occasion calculation                                                                                                                       8.3.0
                       RP-41    RP-080689   0013   1           Definition of Qoffset in cell reselection criteria                                                                                                          8.3.0
                       RP-41    RP-080689   0017   \-          Correction to Discontinuous Reception for paging                                                                                                            8.3.0
                       RP-41    RP-080689   0018   \-          Lifetime of dedicated cell reselection priorities                                                                                                           8.3.0
                       RP-41    RP-080689   0019   \-          Clarification on cell reselection parameters                                                                                                                8.3.0
  2008-12              RP-42    RP-081017   0020   1           Correcting the UE behaviour when Sintrasearch and Snonintrasearch are not provided                                                                          8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0021   \-          Proposed CR to 36.304 \[Rel-8\] on Definition of                                                                                                            8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0022   1           Proposed CR to 36.304 \[Rel-8\] on Intra-frequency reselection allowed/not-allowed concept                                                                  8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0023   \-          Proposed CR to 36.304 \[Rel-8\] on Introduction of Pcompensation                                                                                            8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0024   \-          Proposed CR to 36.304 \[Rel-8\] on Support of UE autonomous search for E-UTRAN CSG cells when camped on other RAT than E-UTRAN                              8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0025   \-          Correction to range of nB in TS 36.304                                                                                                                      8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0026   2           Miscellaneous corrections to 36.304                                                                                                                         8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0027   1           Proposed CR to 36.304 \[Rel-8\] on Support of registration procedures as outcome of a manual CSG ID selection                                               8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0029   2           Implicit priority for CSG cells                                                                                                                             8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0032   \-          Correction of the reselection formula for offset used for PLMN selection                                                                                    8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0036   \-          Clarification of definition of SnonServingCell,x for cdma2000 RATs in TS 36.304                                                                             8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0038   1           Support of emergency calls in LTE Rel-8                                                                                                                     8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0042   \-          CR to 36.304 on Removal of cellReservationExtension                                                                                                         8.4.0
                       RP-42    RP-081017   0044   1           Idle mode agreements related to 36.304                                                                                                                      8.4.0
  2009-03              RP-43    RP-090125   0045   \-          CR to 36.304 on correction of definition of Pmax                                                                                                            8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0046   1           Emergency call in camped on any cell state in LTE Rel8                                                                                                      8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0047   \-          Handling of Priority of Camping Frequency                                                                                                                   8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0048   2           Correction to implementation of CR0009 to 36.304                                                                                                            8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0049   \-          UE Behaviour on Registration Failure to CSG                                                                                                                 8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0050   2           CR to 36.304 to capture several editorial corrections                                                                                                       8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0051   1           CR to 36.304 on Update of Figure 4.1-1 Overall Idle Mode Process                                                                                            8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0053   2           Correction to priority based reselection handling                                                                                                           8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0057   3           CR on UE behaviour in absence of reselection priorities in system information                                                                               8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0058   3           Cell reselection for CSG                                                                                                                                    8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0060   \-          Corrections to Inter-RAT Cell Reselection Criteria                                                                                                          8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0062   \-          Manual selection                                                                                                                                            8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090145   0063   1           Reception of ETWS notification without verifying digital signature                                                                                          8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0066   \-          Draft CR to 36.304 on Inheriting of dedicated priorities at inter-RAT reselection                                                                           8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0067   \-          Proposed CR to 36.304 Clarification on applying DRX value                                                                                                   8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0070   \-          Draft CR to 36.304 on Correction to UE behaviour if dedicated cell reselection priority is assigned but frequency is not configured by system information   8.5.0
                       RP-43    RP-090125   0071   \-          Clarification to the best non-allowed CSG cell                                                                                                              8.5.0
  2009-06              RP-44    RP-090510   0072   2           CR on correction of sign in SnonServingCell,x for CDMA2000 RATs                                                                                             8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0073   \-          Correction to UE behaviour while 300s frequency barring timer is running                                                                                    8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0074   1           Correction to any cell selection procedure                                                                                                                  8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0075   1           Correction to reselection in case IFRI is not allowed                                                                                                       8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0076   1           Clarification when no candidate cells on serving frequency                                                                                                  8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0077   1           Clarification of the Priority Handling in CSG Cell                                                                                                          8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0079   \-          Correction to cell selection when leaving RRC connected mode                                                                                                8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0080   \-          CR for Removing FFS for T3230                                                                                                                               8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0082   \-          Correction on the Lower Priority Cell Reselection Rule                                                                                                      8.6.0
                       RP-44    RP-090510   0084   \-          Clarification on disabling E-UTRA capabilities with a USIM                                                                                                  8.6.0
  2009-09              RP-45    RP-090906   0085   \-          Clarification on cell status and cell reservations                                                                                                          8.7.0
                       RP-45    RP-090906   0089   \-          Correction on Cell reserved for operators use                                                                                                               8.7.0
                       RP-45    RP-090906   0094   \-          clarifications for manual CSG ID selection                                                                                                                  8.7.0
  2009-09              RP-45    RP-090934   0086   1           Some clarifications on TS 36.304                                                                                                                            9.0.0
                       RP-45    RP-090926   0091   1           IMS emergency call when UE camps on acceptable cell                                                                                                         9.0.0
                       RP-45    RP-090933   0096   \-          Reception of CMAS notifications in limited service state                                                                                                    9.0.0
  2009-12              RP-46    RP-091314   0098   \-          Clarification on Parameters for Cell Selection                                                                                                              9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091346   0099   \-          Clarifications on autonomous search function for CSG                                                                                                        9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091346   0100   1           Correction of Treselection inconsistency regarding frequency groups                                                                                         9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091346   0102   \-          CR to 36.304 - Handling of barring in case of priority based reselection                                                                                    9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091346   0103   \-          Functions supported for the UE \"limited service state\"                                                                                                    9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091334   0104   3           UE\'s behaviour when camping on cell supporting emergency call                                                                                              9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091343   0106   2           Stage3 CR for LTE hybrid cell Idle Mode Mobility                                                                                                            9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091314   0109   \-          Correction related to Location Registration in manual CSG ID selection procedure.                                                                           9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091343   0114   \-          Access Stratum support for manual CSG selection across PLMN (CR 36.304 Rel-9)                                                                               9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091343   0117   \-          Renaming Allowed CSG List (36.304 Rel-9)                                                                                                                    9.1.0
                       RP-46    RP-091341   0119   \-          Proposed CR to 36.304 on Introduction of MBMS                                                                                                               9.1.0
  2010-03              RP-47    RP-100296   0122   \-          Clarification on RRC connection re-establishment for emergency calls                                                                                        9.2.0
                       RP-47    RP-100308   0123   1           Correction on reselection from non-CSG cell to CSG inter-RAT cell                                                                                           9.2.0
                       RP-47    RP-100308   0124   1           Miscellaneous correction on 36.304                                                                                                                          9.2.0
                       RP-47    RP-100305   0125   \-          Proposed CR to 36.304 on Addition of missing abbreviations related with MBMS                                                                                9.2.0
                       RP-47    RP-100308   0129   \-          Cell reselection enhancements CR for 36.304                                                                                                                 9.2.0
  2010-06              RP-48    RP-100556   0133   \-          Correction to CSG autonomous search function                                                                                                                9.3.0
  2010-09              RP-49    RP-100855   0134   \-          Clarification on CSG autonomous search                                                                                                                      9.4.0
                       RP-49    RP-100851   0136   1           Clarifications Regarding Redirection from LTE                                                                                                               9.4.0
                       RP-49    RP-100845   0138   \-          Correct the PEMAX\_H to PEMAX                                                                                                                               9.4.0
                       RP-49    RP-100851   0139   1           Clarification on the use of RSRQ for cell reselection towards GERAN or CDMA                                                                                 9.4.0
  2010-12              RP-50    RP-101210   0142   \-          Cell selection in case of redirection based CSFB procedure                                                                                                  9.5.0
  2010-12              RP-50    RP-101221   0140   2           36.304 CR on MDT                                                                                                                                            10.0.0
  2011-03              RP-51    RP-110271   0151   \-          36.304 correction on manual CSG selection                                                                                                                   10.1.0
  2011-06              RP-52    RP-110835   0154   \-          CR to align NAS and AS for handling of CSG cells                                                                                                            10.2.0
                       RP-52    RP-110843   0155   1           Clean up of MDT clause                                                                                                                                      10.2.0
  2011-09              RP-53    RP-111281   0160   \-          Correction of inter-frequency or inter-RAT cell reselection criteria for UTRA TDD case                                                                      10.3.0
  2011-12              RP-54    RP-111710   0167   1           Clarification of inter-RAT cell reselection enhancements                                                                                                    10.4.0
  2012-03              RP-55    RP-120325   0175   \-          MBMS Multibands Cell Selection and Reselection                                                                                                              10.5.0
  2012-06              RP-56    RP-120813   0183   1           Korean Public Alert System (KPAS) in relation to CMAS                                                                                                       10.6.0
                       RP-56    RP-120807   0187   1           Avoiding unexpected UE prioritization for MBMS where MBMS is not deployed                                                                                   10.6.0
                       RP-56    RP-120813   0188   1           EU-Alert in relation to CMAS                                                                                                                                11.0.0
  2012-09              RP-57    RP-121370   0192   1           Introduction of MDT multi-PLMN                                                                                                                              11.1.0
                       RP-57    RP-121375   0195   \-          Introducing MBMS enhancements                                                                                                                               11.1.0
  2012-12              RP-58    RP-121940   0196   \-          Clarification of MBMS Prioritisation                                                                                                                        11.2.0
                       RP-58    RP-121957   0197   \-          Correction to absolute priority cell reselection                                                                                                            11.2.0
                       RP-58    RP-121946   0198   \-          Introduction of MDT accessibility measurements                                                                                                              11.2.0
                       RP-58    RP-121958   0199   1           RAN overload handling using RRC Reject                                                                                                                      11.2.0
  2013-03              RP-59    RP-130241   0209   \-          Clarification on MBMS Service Continuity                                                                                                                    11.3.0
                       RP-59    RP-130248   0210   \-          Clarification of De-prioritization in idle mode                                                                                                             11.3.0
                       RP-59    RP-130247   0213   \-          Corrections on mobility to CSG and hybrid cells in idle mode                                                                                                11.3.0
                       RP-59    RP-130248   0214   1           Clarification on handling of deprioritsation information upon PLMN selection                                                                                11.3.0
  2013-06              RP-60    RP-130808   0221   \-          Correction of MBMS prioritisation                                                                                                                           11.4.0
                       RP-60    RP-130809   0222   \-          Updating 3GPP2 specification references                                                                                                                     11.4.0
  2013-09              RP-61    RP-131311   0223   1           Cell reselection criteria with threshServingLowQ provided                                                                                                   11.5.0
  2013-12              RP-62    RP-131987   0227   1           Correction of MBMS prioritisation for DL only carrier                                                                                                       11.6.0
  2014-03              RP-63    RP-140359   0233   \-          Introduction of UE mobility history reporting (option 2)                                                                                                    12.0.0
  2014-06              RP-64    RP-140881   0235   \-          Introduction of support for UE power saving mode                                                                                                            12.1.0
                       RP-64    RP-140892   0238   1           Introduction of RRC Connection Establishment failure temporary Qoffset handling                                                                             12.1.0
  2014-09              RP-65    RP-141507   0244   \-          Introduction of MBSFN MDT                                                                                                                                   12.2.0
                       RP-65    RP-141504   0243   1           Procedures of WLAN/3GPP Radio Interworking for LTE                                                                                                          12.2.0
  2014-12              RP-66    RP-142122   0251   \-          Clarification on handling of dedicated parameters upon cell selection                                                                                       12.3.0
                       RP-66    RP-142122   0253   \-          UE behavior when the cell temporarily becomes unsuitable.                                                                                                   12.3.0
  2015-03              RP-67    RP-150373   0260   \-          UE capability signaling for WLAN/3GPP radio interworking                                                                                                    12.4.0
                       RP-67    RP-150373   0265   1           Cleanup on RAN-assisted WLAN interworking                                                                                                                   12.4.0
                       RP-67    RP-150373   0266   \-          Correction on WLAN identifiers                                                                                                                              12.4.0
                       RP-67    RP-150374   0264   1           Introduction of ProSe                                                                                                                                       12.4.0
  2015-06              RP-68    RP-150921   0267   \-          Correction on limited service state conditions                                                                                                              12.5.0
                       RP-68    RP-150923   0272   1           Correction to SI acquisition failure                                                                                                                        12.5.0
  2015-09              RP-69    RP-151441   0273   1           Sidelink terminology alignment in TS 36.304                                                                                                                 12.6.0
  2015-12              RP-70    RP-152048   0277   2           Enabling multiple NS and P-Max per cell                                                                                                                     12.7.0
  2015-12              RP-70    RP-152082   0285   1           Introduction of IDC Impact to Logged Measurements                                                                                                           13.0.0
                       RP-70    RP-152075   0280   1           Extension of Frequency Priorities                                                                                                                           13.0.0
                       RP-70    RP-152066   0286   \-          Introduction of ACDC in TS 36.304                                                                                                                           13.0.0
                       RP-70    RP-152080   0278   2           Introduction of SC-PTM                                                                                                                                      13.0.0
                       RP-70    RP-152075   0281   3           Introduction of load redistribution in RRC\_IDLE                                                                                                            13.0.0
                       RP-70    RP-152072   0287   \-          Introducing eSL                                                                                                                                             13.0.0
                       RP-70    RP-152076   0288   \-          Introducing extended DRX                                                                                                                                    13.0.0
  2016-03              RP-71    RP-160456   0289   1           Correction on PO monitoring during paing window in eDRX                                                                                                     13.1.0
                       RP-71    RP-160470   0290   1           Clarification of idle mode load distribution                                                                                                                13.1.0
                       RP-71    RP-160454   0291   1           Miscellaneous corrections                                                                                                                                   13.1.0
                       RP-71    RP-160456   0293   1           PTW terminology alignment                                                                                                                                   13.1.0
                       RP-71    RP-160470   0295   1           Correction to E-UTRAN Inter-frequency Redistribution procedure\_alt2                                                                                        13.1.0
                       RP-71    RP-160453   0299   3           The introduction of the Idle procedure for eMTC UE                                                                                                          13.1.0
                       RP-71    RP-160457   0300   \-          Introduction of WLAN RSSI measurements                                                                                                                      13.1.0
  2016-06              RP-72    RP-161080   0302   \-          Correction for conditions of sidelink operation                                                                                                             13.2.0
                       RP-72    RP-161080   0313   \-          Corrections on nB extension                                                                                                                                 13.2.0
                       RP-72    RP-161080   0315   \-          Correction to eMTC message classes and logical channels                                                                                                     13.2.0
                       RP-72    RP-161080   0312   \-          Renaming UE\_ID used for MCLD purposes                                                                                                                      13.2.0
                       RP-72    RP-161080   0304   1           Corrections on carrier frequency prioritization for PS sidelink discovery                                                                                   13.2.0
                       RP-72    RP-161080   0305   1           Correction to System Information change notifications in RRC\_IDLE for MTCe                                                                                 13.2.0
                       RP-72    RP-161080   0314   1           Corrections on TS 36.304 for eMTC                                                                                                                           13.2.0
                       RP-72    RP-161080   0307   1           Clarification of UE behaviour immediately after T360 expiry                                                                                                 13.2.0
                       RP-72    RP-161195   0311   2           Introduction of NB-IoT in 36.304                                                                                                                            13.2.0
  2016-09              RP-73    RP-161762   0321   \-          The field name is not highlighted with italic                                                                                                               13.3.0
                       RP-73    RP-161759   0322   2           Idle mode UE behaviour on user plane CIoT EPS optimisation                                                                                                  13.3.0
                       RP-73    RP-161758   0325   1           Corrections to NB-IoT                                                                                                                                       13.3.0
                       RP-73    RP-161762   0328   \-          Clarification of UE redistribution target selection                                                                                                         13.3.0
                       RP-73    RP-161762   0329   \-          PH and PTW\_Start calculation for eDRX paging                                                                                                               13.3.0
  2016-09              RP-73    RP-161746   0324   1           Introduction of PC5 V2V for 36.304                                                                                                                          14.0.0
  2016-12              RP-74    RP-162314   0331   1           Editorial corrections to TS 36.304                                                                                                                          14.1.0
                       RP-74    RP-162328   0332   1           Corrections on V2V description in TS 36.304                                                                                                                 14.1.0
                       RP-74    RP-162313   0340   \-          Clarification on TreselectionEUTRA\_CE                                                                                                                      14.1.0
                       RP-74    RP-162327   0341   \-          Support of eCall Only Mode for Network and Cell Selection                                                                                                   14.1.0
  2017-03              RP-75    RP-170655   0344   \-    A     Correction on channel bandwidth definition for NB-IoT                                                                                                       14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170636   0347   1     B     Introduction of authorization of coverage enhancements                                                                                                      14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170643   0349   1     F     Correction on V2X sidelink communication in limited service state in in TS 36.304                                                                           14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170636   0350   1     B     Introduction of SC-PTM for FeMTC and NB-IoT                                                                                                                 14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170633   0351   1     B     Introduction of FeMBMS to 36.304                                                                                                                            14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170637   0352   1     B     Introduction of Rel-14 NB-IoT enhancements into idle mode                                                                                                   14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170651   0357   \-    A     Clarification for Hashed\_ID                                                                                                                                14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170653   0358   \-    A     Clarifications on reselection for eMTC                                                                                                                      14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170653   0360   \-    A     New S-criteria for enhanced coverage in idle mode                                                                                                           14.2.0
                       RP-75    RP-170635   0361   \-    B     Introduction of PC5 V2X for 36.304                                                                                                                          14.2.0
  2017-06              RP-76    RP-171224   0363   2     F     Correction to paging carrier selection formula in Rel-14 NB-IoT                                                                                             14.3.0
                       RP-76    RP-171243   0370   2     A     Correction for eDRX Hashed ID                                                                                                                               14.3.0
                       RP-76    RP-171223   0376   2     F     Correction to usage of SC-PTM offset in NB-IoT and FeMTC                                                                                                    14.3.0
                       RP-76    RP-171221   0380   1     F     Correction to Reselection priorities handling for FeMBMS                                                                                                    14.3.0
  2017-09              RP-77    RP-171920   0386   1     A     Adding reference to SystemInformationBlockType1-BR to the clause on cell status and cell reservations                                                       14.4.0
  2017-12              RP-78    RP-172617   0392   2     C     Introduction of relaxed monitoring in NB-IoT                                                                                                                14.5.0
                       RP-78    RP-172624   0397   2     A     Correction to cell barring for coverage enhancement                                                                                                         14.5.0
                       RP-78    RP-172623   0399   1     A     Clarification on eDRX in NB-IoT                                                                                                                             14.5.0
  2018-03              RP-79    RP-180445   0402   4     F     Correction to relaxed monitoring reference RSRP reset (Alternative 1)                                                                                       14.6.0
                       RP-79    RP-180443   0405   1     C     Introduction of support of relaxed monitoring for BL and CE UE                                                                                              14.6.0
                       RP-79    RP-180443   0407   2     F     Support of CE mode B restriction for Rel-14 eMTC                                                                                                            14.6.0
  2018-06              RP-80    RP-181228   0410   \-    B     TS 36.304 running CR for HSDN                                                                                                                               15.0.0
                       RP-80    RP-181224   0411   r     B     EARFCN provisioning for UE in enhanced coverage                                                                                                             15.0.0
                       RP-80    RP-181252   0416   2     B     Introduction of further NB-IoT enhancements in 36.304                                                                                                       15.0.0
                       RP-80    RP-181224   0417   1     B     Introduction of further eMTC enhancements in 36.304                                                                                                         15.0.0
                       RP-80    RP-181223   0419   1     B     Introduction of E-UTRA connected to 5GCN                                                                                                                    15.0.0
                       RP-80    RP-181228   0420   1     B     Support for Logging of \'Any cell selection\' state                                                                                                         15.0.0
                       RP-80    RP-181225   0729   1     B     Implementing network-based CRS interference mitigation                                                                                                      15.0.0
  2018-09              RP-81    RP-181940   0412   4     B     Introduction of LTE to NR reselection in 36.304                                                                                                             15.1.0
                       RP-81    RP-181950   0731   1     F     CR to 36.304 on CN selection for LTE connected to 5GC                                                                                                       15.1.0
                       RP-81    RP-181963   0736   1     A     Correction to entering condition for relaxed monitoring                                                                                                     15.1.0
                       RP-81    RP-181944   0737   3     F     Define relation between WUS occasion and PO                                                                                                                 15.1.0
                       RP-81    RP-181944   0740   2     F     Corrections for CRS muting in TS 36.304                                                                                                                     15.1.0
                       RP-81    RP-181950   0742   \-    F     Correction on RRC\_INACTIVE and camping on E-UTRA connected to 5GC in NB-IoT                                                                                15.1.0
                       RP-81    RP-181940   0747   \-    F     Paging Monitoring in Camped Normally state and Camped on Any Cell state                                                                                     15.1.0
                       RP-81    RP-181960   0748   \-    F     Corrections to 36.304 speed dependent mobility and inter-RAT cells with cell reservations, access restrictions, or unsuitable for normal camping            15.1.0
  2018-12              RP-82    RP-182671   0741   3     F     Small correction to paging with wake up signal                                                                                                              15.2.0
                       RP-82    RP-182676   0744   5     F     Corrections to TS 36.304 for E-UTRA connected to 5GC                                                                                                        15.2.0
                       RP-82    RP-182652   0750   1     F     Correction on paging for LTE connected to 5GC                                                                                                               15.2.0
                       RP-82    RP-182676   0752   2     F     Clarification of Qoffsettemp for eLTE in 36.304                                                                                                             15.2.0
                       RP-82    RP-182681   0757   1     F     Correction to gap determination for the wake-up signal                                                                                                      15.2.0
                       RP-82    RP-182675   0758   \-    F     TS36.304 CR on \[103bis\#43\]\[LTEeLTE\] Capture NR agreements                                                                                              15.2.0
                       RP-82    RP-182676   0762   \-    F     TS36.304 CR on \[104\#23\]\[LTE/5GC\] Capture NR agreements                                                                                                 15.2.0
  2019-03              RP-83    RP-190540   0763   1     F     Suitable cell criteria for reselection to NR cell                                                                                                           15.3.0
                       RP-83    RP-190551   0764   \-    F     CR on missing descprition of transmission pool sharing                                                                                                      15.3.0
  2019-06              RP-84    RP-191380   0765   2     F     Correction to mobility state handling in case of LTE to NR reselection                                                                                      15.4.0
  2019-12              RP-86    RP-192941   0775   1     F     Correction on handling of stored AS context for UP optimization and RRC\_INACTIVE state                                                                     15.5.0
  2020-03              RP-87    RP-200360   0781   1     B     Introduction of Rel-16 eMTC enhancements                                                                                                                    16.0.0
                       RP-87    RP-200361   0783   1     B     Introduction of Rel-16 NB-IoT enhancements                                                                                                                  16.0.0
                       RP-87    RP-200349   0784   3     B     Correction of TS 36.304 to introduce IAB                                                                                                                    16.0.0
                       RP-87    RP-200346   0785   1     B     CR on cell selection/ reselection for NR V2X UE                                                                                                             16.0.0
  2020-07              RP-88    RP-201191   0782   4     B     Introduce of alternative cell reselection priority for EN-DC                                                                                                16.1.0
                       RP-88    RP-201179   0786   4     F     Miscellaneous correction to 36.304 for IAB                                                                                                                  16.1.0
                       RP-88    RP-201193   0788   4     F     Corrections to Rel-16 NB-IoT enhancements                                                                                                                   16.1.0
                       RP-88    RP-201192   0789   4     F     Corrections to WUS group for eMTC                                                                                                                           16.1.0
                       RP-88    RP-201172   0790   \-    B     White listed cells for reselection to NR-U                                                                                                                  16.1.0
                       RP-88    RP-201168   0794   1     A     Clarification for CP EDT                                                                                                                                    16.1.0
                       RP-88    RP-201176   0803   2     F     CR on cell (re)selection for sidelink in TS 36.304                                                                                                          16.1.0
  2020-09              RP-89    RP-201936   0796   3     F     System support for Wake Up Signal                                                                                                                           16.2.0
                       RP-89    RP-201928   0805   1     F     Corrections to 36.304                                                                                                                                       16.2.0
                       RP-89    RP-201938   0807   1     A     Correction on Srxlev Calculation for IRAT Cell Reselection                                                                                                  16.2.0
                       RP-89    RP-201928   0808   2     F     Miscellaneous corrections to NB-IoT Rel-16 enhancements                                                                                                     16.2.0
                       RP-89    RP-201928   0810   1     F     (G)WUS corrections                                                                                                                                          16.2.0
                       RP-89    RP-201923   0812   \-    F     Miscellaneous corrections for TS 36.304 for IAB                                                                                                             16.2.0
  2020-12              RP-90    RP-202780   0814   1     F     Clarification to the last used cell for (G)WUS                                                                                                              16.3.0
                       RP-90    RP-202779   0817   1     F     Clarification on WUS group set selection                                                                                                                    16.3.0
                       RP-90    RP-202769   0818   \-    F     Correction on inter-frequency operation                                                                                                                     16.3.0
  2021-06              RP-92    RP-211479   0830   1     F     Clarifications on paging DRX cycle                                                                                                                          16.4.0
  2021-09              RP-93    RP-212441   0832   1     F     Correction on paging resource determination for eMTC UE in RRC\_INACTIVE                                                                                    16.5.0
  2021-12              RP-94    RP-213343   0833   \-    F     Correction for TS 36.304 on power class for cell selection of IAB                                                                                           16.6.0
                       RP-94    RP-213342   0835   1     F     Removal of RSS based RSRQ measurements                                                                                                                      16.6.0
  2022-03              RP-95    RP-220472   0838   \-    A     Addition of missing description on handling of Access Identities when cell is reserved for operator use                                                     16.7.0
  2023-03              RP-99    RP-230687   0863   \-    F     Corrections in TS 36.304 on csg-Indication handling by IAB-MT for IAB                                                                                       16.8.0
  -------------------- -------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
