3GPP TS 36.321 V16.8.0 (2022-06)

Technical Specification

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);

Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification

(Release 16)

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.

The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.

This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> LTE, E-UTRAN, radio
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 6

1 Scope 7

2 References 7

3 Definitions and abbreviations 8

3.1 Definitions 8

3.2 Abbreviations 11

4 General 12

4.1 Introduction 12

4.2 MAC architecture 12

4.2.1 MAC Entities 13

4.3 Services 15

4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers 15

4.3.2 Services expected from physical layer 15

4.4 Functions 15

4.5 Channel structure 16

4.5.1 Transport Channels 16

4.5.2 Logical Channels 17

4.5.3 Mapping of Transport Channels to Logical Channels 17

4.5.3.1 Uplink mapping 17

4.5.3.2 Downlink mapping 18

4.5.3.3 Sidelink mapping 19

5 MAC procedures 19

5.1 Random Access procedure 19

5.1.1 Random Access Procedure initialization 19

5.1.2 Random Access Resource selection 22

5.1.3 Random Access Preamble transmission 24

5.1.4 Random Access Response reception 26

5.1.5 Contention Resolution 29

5.1.6 Completion of the Random Access procedure 31

5.2 Maintenance of Uplink Time Alignment 31

5.3 DL-SCH data transfer 33

5.3.1 DL Assignment reception 33

5.3.2 HARQ operation 35

5.3.2.1 HARQ Entity 35

5.3.2.2 HARQ process 36

5.3.3 Disassembly and demultiplexing 37

5.4 UL-SCH data transfer 37

5.4.1 UL Grant reception 37

5.4.2 HARQ operation 41

5.4.2.1 HARQ entity 41

5.4.2.2 HARQ process 44

5.4.3 Multiplexing and assembly 47

5.4.3.1 Logical channel prioritization 47

5.4.3.2 Multiplexing of MAC Control Elements and MAC SDUs 49

5.4.4 Scheduling Request 49

5.4.5 Buffer Status Reporting 51

5.4.5a Data Volume and Power Headroom Reporting 53

5.4.6 Power Headroom Reporting 53

5.4.7 Preconfigured Uplink Resource 56

5.4.7.1 Transmission using PUR 56

5.4.7.2 Maintenance of PUR Uplink Time Alignment 57

5.4.8 Access Stratum Release Assistance Indication 57

5.5 PCH reception 57

5.6 BCH reception 58

5.7 Discontinuous Reception (DRX) 58

5.7a Discontinuous Reception (DRX) for SC-PTM 62

5.8 MAC reconfiguration 63

5.9 MAC Reset 63

5.10 Semi-Persistent Scheduling 64

5.10.1 Downlink 64

5.10.2 Uplink 65

5.11 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data 66

5.12 MCH reception 66

5.13 Activation/Deactivation of SCells 66

5.14 SL-SCH Data transfer 68

5.14.1 SL-SCH Data transmission 68

5.14.1.1 SL Grant reception and SCI transmission 68

5.14.1.2 Sidelink HARQ operation 74

5.14.1.2.1 Sidelink HARQ Entity 74

5.14.1.2.2 Sidelink process 74

5.14.1.3 Multiplexing and assembly 75

5.14.1.3.1 Logical channel prioritization 75

5.14.1.3.2 Multiplexing of MAC SDUs 76

5.14.1.4 Buffer Status Reporting 76

5.14.1.5 TX carrier (re-)selection for V2X sidelink communication 78

5.14.2 SL-SCH Data reception 79

5.14.2.1 SCI reception 79

5.14.2.2 Sidelink HARQ operation 79

5.14.2.2.1 Sidelink HARQ Entity 79

5.14.2.2.2 Sidelink process 80

5.14.2.3 Disassembly and demultiplexing 80

5.15 SL-DCH data transfer 81

5.15.1 SL-DCH data transmission 81

5.15.1.1 Resource allocation 81

5.15.1.2 Sidelink HARQ operation 81

5.15.1.2.1 Sidelink HARQ Entity 81

5.15.1.2.2 Sidelink process 82

5.15.2 SL-DCH data reception 82

5.15.2.1 Sidelink HARQ operation 82

5.15.2.1.1 Sidelink HARQ Entity 82

5.15.2.1.2 Sidelink process 83

5.16 SL-BCH data transfer 83

5.16.1 SL-BCH data transmission 83

5.16.2 SL-BCH data reception 83

5.17 Data inactivity monitoring 84

5.18 Recommended Bit Rate 84

5.19 Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources 85

5.20 Preallocated uplink grant 85

5.21 SC-PTM Stop Indication 85

5.22 Entering Dormant SCell state 85

5.23 Autonomous Uplink 87

5.24 Activation/Deactivation of PDCP duplication 87

5.25 Transmission of Downlink Channel Quality Report 88

6 Protocol Data Units, formats and parameters 88

6.1 Protocol Data Units 88

6.1.1 General 88

6.1.2 MAC PDU (DL-SCH and UL-SCH except transparent MAC and Random
Access Response, MCH) 89

6.1.3 MAC Control Elements 90

6.1.3.1 Buffer Status Report MAC Control Elements 90

6.1.3.1a Sidelink BSR MAC Control Elements 93

6.1.3.2 C-RNTI MAC Control Element 94

6.1.3.3 DRX Command MAC Control Element 95

6.1.3.4 UE Contention Resolution Identity MAC Control Element 95

6.1.3.5 Timing Advance Command MAC Control Element 95

6.1.3.6 Power Headroom Report MAC Control Element 96

6.1.3.6a Extended Power Headroom Report MAC Control Elements 96

6.1.3.6b Dual Connectivity Power Headroom Report MAC Control Element 99

6.1.3.7 MCH Scheduling Information MAC Control Element 102

6.1.3.7a Extended MCH Scheduling Information MAC Control Element 102

6.1.3.8 Activation/Deactivation MAC Control Elements 103

6.1.3.9 Long DRX Command MAC Control Element 104

6.1.3.10 Data Volume and Power Headroom Report MAC Control Element 104

6.1.3.11 SPS confirmation MAC Control Element 105

6.1.3.12 SC-PTM Stop Indication MAC Control Element 105

6.1.3.13 Recommended bit rate MAC Control Element 106

6.1.3.14 Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources MAC Control Element
107

6.1.3.15 Hibernation MAC Control Elements 108

6.1.3.16 AUL confirmation MAC Control Element 109

6.1.3.17 PDCP Duplication Activation/Deactivation MAC Control Element
110

6.1.3.18 Downlink Channel Quality Report Command MAC Control Element 110

6.1.3.19 Downlink Channel Quality Report and AS RAI MAC Control Element
110

6.1.4 MAC PDU (transparent MAC) 111

6.1.5 MAC PDU (Random Access Response) 111

6.1.6 MAC PDU (SL-SCH) 113

6.2 Formats and parameters 115

6.2.1 MAC header for DL-SCH, UL-SCH and MCH 115

6.2.2 MAC header for Random Access Response 118

6.2.3 MAC payload for Random Access Response 118

6.2.4 MAC header for SL-SCH 118

7 Variables and constants 120

7.1 RNTI values 120

7.2 Backoff Parameter values 121

7.3 PRACH Mask Index values 123

7.4 Subframe\_Offset values 123

7.5 TTI\_BUNDLE\_SIZE value 123

7.6 DELTA\_PREAMBLE values 123

7.7 HARQ RTT Timers 124

7.8 DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER value 126

7.9 UL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER value 127

Annex A (normative): Handling of measurement gaps 128

Annex B (normative): Contention resolution for RACH access 129

Annex C (informative): Intended UE behaviour for DRX Timers 132

Annex D (normative): List of CRs Containing Early Implementable Features
and Corrections 134

Annex E (informative): Change history 134

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the E-UTRA MAC protocol.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Physical Layer Procedures\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 36.322: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) Specification\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 36.212: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Multiplexing and channel coding\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Physical layer; Measurements\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Physical Channels and Modulation\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Requirements for support of radio resource management\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 36.216: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Physical layer for relaying operation\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 24.386: \"User Equipment (UE) to V2X control function;
protocol aspects; Stage 3\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia
telephony; Media handling and interaction\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical Layer Procedures for control\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NR; Requirements for support of radio resource
management\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN);
Overall description; Stage 2\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 38.101‑3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission
and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with
other radios\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 38.306: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access
capabilities\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS)
to support Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services \".

\[24\] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**Active Time:** Time related to DRX operation, as defined in clause
5.7, during which the MAC entity monitors the PDCCH.

***mac-ContentionResolutionTimer***: Specifies the number of consecutive
subframe(s) during which the MAC entity shall monitor the PDCCH after
Msg3 is transmitted.

**DRX Cycle:** Specifies the periodic repetition of the On Duration
followed by a possible period of inactivity (see figure 3.1-1 below).

Figure 3.1-1: DRX Cycle

***drx-InactivityTimer***: Except for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in
enhanced coverage, it specifies the number of consecutive
PDCCH-subframe(s) after the subframe in which a PDCCH indicates an
initial UL, DL or SL user data transmission for this MAC entity. For
NB-IoT UEs, it specifies the number of consecutive PDCCH-subframe(s)
after the subframe in which the HARQ RTT timer or UL HARQ RTT timer
expires. For BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, it specifies the number
of consecutive PDCCH-subframe(s) following the subframe containing the
last repetition of the PDCCH reception that indicates an initial UL or
DL user data transmission for this MAC entity.

***drx-RetransmissionTimer***: Specifies the maximum number of
consecutive PDCCH-subframe(s) until a DL retransmission is received.

***drx-RetransmissionTimerShortTTI***: Specifies the maximum number of
consecutive TTI(s) until a DL retransmission is received for HARQ
processes scheduled using short TTI.

***drxShortCycleTimer***: Specifies the number of consecutive
subframe(s) the MAC entity shall follow the Short DRX cycle.

***drxStartOffset***: Specifies the subframe where the DRX Cycle starts.

***drx-ULRetransmissionTimer***: Specifies the maximum number of
consecutive PDCCH-subframe(s) until a grant for UL retransmission or the
HARQ feedback is received.

***drx-ULRetransmissionTimeShortTTI***: Specifies the maximum number of
consecutive TTI(s) until a grant for UL retransmission is received for
HARQ processes scheduled using short TTI.

**Early Data Transmission: Allows one uplink data transmission
optionally followed by one downlink data transmission during the random
access procedure as specified in TS 36.300 \[20\]. The S1 connection is
established or resumed upon reception of the uplink data and may be
released or suspended along with the transmission of the downlink data.
Early data transmission refers to both CP-EDT and UP-EDT.**

**HARQ information**: HARQ information for DL-SCH or for UL-SCH
transmissions consists of New Data Indicator (NDI), Transport Block (TB)
size. For DL-SCH transmissions and for asynchronous UL HARQ and for
autonomous UL HARQ, the HARQ information also includes HARQ process ID,
except for UEs in NB-IoT configured with a single HARQ process for which
this information is not present. For UL-SCH transmission the HARQ
information also includes Redundancy Version (RV). In case of spatial
multiplexing on DL-SCH the HARQ information comprises a set of NDI and
TB size for each transport block. HARQ information for SL-SCH and SL-DCH
transmissions consists of TB size only.

**HARQ RTT Timer**: This parameter specifies the minimum amount of
subframe(s) before a DL assignment for HARQ retransmission is expected
by the MAC entity.

**Msg3**: Message transmitted on UL-SCH containing a C-RNTI MAC CE or a
CCCH SDU optionally multiplexed with DTCH for the UP-EDT, submitted from
upper layer and associated with the UE Contention Resolution Identity,
as part of a random access procedure.

**NB-IoT**: NB-IoT allows access to network services via E-UTRA with a
channel bandwidth limited to 200 kHz.

**NB-IoT UE**: A UE that uses NB-IoT.

**NR sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling at least V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.287 \[23\], between two or more nearby
UEs, using NR technology but not traversing any network node.

***onDurationTimer***: Specifies the number of consecutive
PDCCH-subframe(s) at the beginning of a DRX Cycle.

**PDCCH:** Refers to the PDCCH (see TS 36.211 \[7\]), EPDCCH (in
subframes when configured), MPDCCH (see TS 36.213 \[2\]), for an RN with
R-PDCCH configured and not suspended, to the R-PDCCH, for NB-IoT to the
NPDCCH or for short TTI to SPDCCH.

**PDCCH period (pp):** Refers to the interval between the start of two
consecutive PDCCH occasions and depends on the currently used PDCCH
search space, as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\]. A PDCCH occasion is the
start of a search space and is defined by subframe k0 as specified in
clause 16.6 of TS 36.213 \[2\]. The calculation of number of
PDCCH-subframes for the timer configured in units of a PDCCH period is
done by multiplying the number of PDCCH periods with
*npdcch-NumRepetitions-RA* when the UE uses the common search space or
by *npdcch-NumRepetitions* when the UE uses the UE specific search
space. When counting a timer whose length is calculated in
PDCCH-subframes, the UE shall include PDCCH-subframes that will be
dropped or not required to be monitored as specified in clause 16.6 of
TS 36.213 \[2\]. The calculation of number of subframes for the timer
configured in units of a PDCCH period is done by multiplying the number
of PDCCH periods with duration between two consecutive PDCCH occasions.

**PDCCH-subframe:** Refers to a subframe with PDCCH. This represents the
union over PDCCH-subframes for all serving cells excluding cells
configured with cross carrier scheduling for both uplink and downlink,
as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\]; except if the UE is not capable of
simultaneous reception and transmission in the aggregated cells where
this instead represents the PDCCH-subframes of the SpCell.

\- For FDD serving cells, all subframes represent PDCCH-subframes,
unless specified otherwise in this clause.

\- For TDD serving cells, all downlink subframes and subframes including
DwPTS of the TDD UL/DL configuration indicated by *tdd-Config*, as
specified in TS 36.331 \[8\] of the cell represent PDCCH-subframes,
unless specified otherwise in this clause.

\- For serving cells operating according to Frame structure Type 3, all
subframes represent PDCCH-subframes.

\- For RNs with an RN subframe configuration configured and not
suspended, in its communication with the E-UTRAN, all downlink subframes
configured for RN communication with the E-UTRAN represent
PDCCH-subframes.

\- For SC-PTM reception on an FDD cell, all subframes except MBSFN
subframes represent PDCCH-subframes, unless specified otherwise in this
clause.

\- For SC-PTM reception on a TDD cell, all downlink subframes and
subframes including DwPTS of the TDD UL/DL configuration indicated by
*tdd-Config*, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\] of the cell except MBSFN
subframes represent PDCCH-subframes, unless specified otherwise in this
clause.

\- For BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage, all subframes in which the UE
is required to monitor MPDCCH represent PDCCH-subframes among all valid
subframes regardless of whether the subframe is dropped, see clause
9.1.5 of TS 36.213 \[2\].

\- For NB-IoT UE, all subframes that are part of the NPDCCH search space
represent PDCCH-subframes among all NB-IoT downlink subframes, including
those which the UE is not required to monitor as specified in clause
16.6 of TS 36.213 \[2\].

**PDSCH: Refers to subframe-PDSCH/slot-PDSCH/subslot-PDSCH or for NB-IoT
to NPDSCH.**

**PRACH: Refers to PRACH or for NB-IoT to NPRACH.**

**PRACH Resource Index**: The index of a PRACH within a system frame,
see TS 36.211 \[7\]

**Primary Timing Advance Group:** Timing Advance Group containing the
SpCell.

**PUCCH SCell:** An SCell configured with PUCCH/SPUCCH.

**PUSCH: Refers to subframe-PUSCH/slot-PUSCH/subslot-PUSCH or for NB-IoT
to NPUSCH.**

***ra-PRACH-MaskIndex*:** Defines in which PRACHs within a system frame
the MAC entity can transmit a Random Access Preamble (see clause 7.3).

**RA-RNTI:** The Random Access RNTI is used on the PDCCH when Random
Access Response messages are transmitted. It unambiguously identifies
which time-frequency resource was utilized by the MAC entity to transmit
the Random Access preamble.

**SC Period:** Sidelink Control period, the time period consisting of
transmission of SCI and its corresponding data.

**SCI:** The Sidelink Control Information contains the sidelink
scheduling information such as resource block assignment, modulation and
coding scheme, Group Destination ID (for sidelink communication) and
PPPP (for V2X sidelink communication), see TS 36.212 \[5\].

**Secondary Timing Advance Group:** Timing Advance Group not containing
the SpCell. A Secondary Timing Advance Group contains at least one
Serving Cell with an UL configured.

**Serving Cell:** A Primary or a Secondary Cell, see TS 36.331 \[8\].

**Short Processing Time**: For 1 ms TTI length, the operation with short
processing time in UL data transmission and DL data reception.

**Short TTI**: TTI length based on a slot or a subslot.

**Sidelink:** UE to UE interface for sidelink communication, sidelink
discovery and V2X sidelink communication. The sidelink corresponds to
the PC5 interface as defined in TS 23.303 \[13\] for sidelink
communication and sidelink discovery, and as defined in TS 23.285 \[14\]
for V2X sidelink communication.

**Sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct
Communication as defined in TS 23.303 \[13\], between two or more nearby
UEs, using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node.

**Sidelink Discovery Gap for Reception:** Time period during which the
UE does not receive any channels in DL from any serving cell, except
during random access procedure.

**Sidelink Discovery Gap for Transmission:** Time period during which
the UE prioritizes transmission of sidelink discovery and associated
procedures **e.g.** re-tuning and synchronisation over transmission of
channels in UL, if they occur in the same subframe, except during random
access procedure.

**Special Cell:** For Dual Connectivity operation the term Special Cell
refers to the PCell of the MCG or the PSCell of the SCG, otherwise the
term Special Cell refers to the PCell.

**Timing Advance Group:** A group of Serving Cells that is configured by
RRC and that, for the cells with an UL configured, using the same timing
reference cell and the same Timing Advance value.

**Transmission using PUR:** Allows one uplink data transmission using
preconfigured uplink resource from RRC\_IDLE mode as specified in TS
36.300 \[9\]. Transmission using PUR refers to both CP transmission
using PUR and UP transmission using PUR.

**UL HARQ RTT Timer**: This parameter specifies the minimum amount of
subframe(s) before a UL HARQ retransmission grant is expected by the MAC
entity.

**V2X sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.285 \[14\], between nearby UEs, using
E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node.

NOTE: A timer is running once it is started, until it is stopped or
until it expires; otherwise it is not running. A timer can be started if
it is not running or restarted if it is running. A Timer is always
started or restarted from its initial value.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

> AS Access Stratum
>
> AUL Autonomous Uplink
>
> BL Bandwidth reduced Low complexity
>
> BR Bandwidth Reduced
>
> BSR Buffer Status Report
>
> C-RNTI Cell RNTI
>
> CBR Channel Busy Ratio
>
> CC-RNTI Common Control RNTI
>
> CG Cell Group
>
> CQI Channel Quality Indicator
>
> CRI CSI-RS Resource Indicator
>
> CSI Channel State Information
>
> DAPS Dual Active Protocol Stack
>
> DCQR Downlink Channel Quality Report
>
> DRB Data Radio Bearer
>
> EDT Early Data Transmission
>
> eIMTA Enhanced Interference Management and Traffic Adaptation
>
> eIMTA-RNTI Enhanced Interference Management and Traffic Adaptation -
> RNTI
>
> E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
>
> E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
>
> G-RNTI Group RNTI
>
> H-SFN Hyper SFN
>
> MAC Medium Access Control
>
> MCG Master Cell Group
>
> M-RNTI MBMS RNTI
>
> MPDCCH MTC Physical Downlink Control Channel
>
> LCG Logical Channel Group
>
> NB-IoT Narrow Band Internet of Things
>
> NPDCCH Narrowband Physical Downlink Control Channel
>
> NPDSCH Narrowband Physical Downlink Shared channel
>
> NPRACH Narrowband Physical Random Access Control Channel
>
> NPUSCH Narrowband Physical Uplink Shared channel
>
> PCell Primary Cell
>
> PSCell Primary Secondary Cell
>
> PHR Power Headroom Report
>
> PMI Precoding Matrix Index
>
> PPPP ProSe Per-Packet Priority
>
> P-RNTI Paging RNTI
>
> ProSe Proximity-based Services
>
> pTAG Primary Timing Advance Group
>
> PTI Precoding Type Indicator
>
> PUR Preconfigured Uplink Resource
>
> RA-RNTI Random Access RNTI
>
> RAI Release Assistance Indication
>
> RI Rank Indicator
>
> RN Relay Node
>
> RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identifier
>
> SCell Secondary Cell
>
> SC-FDM Single-Carrier Frequency Division Multiplexing
>
> SCG Secondary Cell Group
>
> SCI Sidelink Control Information
>
> SC-N-RNTI Single Cell Notification RNTI
>
> SC-PTM Single Cell Point to Multipoint
>
> SC-RNTI Single Cell RNTI
>
> SI-RNTI System Information RNTI
>
> SL Sidelink
>
> SL-RNTI Sidelink RNTI
>
> SL-V-RNTI Sidelink V2X RNTI
>
> SR Scheduling Request
>
> SRS Sounding Reference Symbols
>
> SRS-TPC-RNTI Sounding Reference Symbols-Transmit Power Control-RNTI
>
> SpCell Special Cell
>
> sTAG Secondary Timing Advance Group
>
> sTTI Slot or subslot TTI
>
> TAG Timing Advance Group
>
> TB Transport Block
>
> TPC-PUCCH-RNTI Transmit Power Control-Physical Uplink Control
> Channel-RNTI
>
> TPC-PUSCH-RNTI Transmit Power Control-Physical Uplink Shared
> Channel-RNTI
>
> V2X Vehicle-to-Everything

4 General
=========

4.1 Introduction
----------------

The objective is to describe the MAC architecture and the MAC entity
from a functional point of view. Functionality specified for the UE
equally applies to the RN for functionality necessary for the RN. There
is also functionality which is only applicable to the RN, in which case
the specification denotes the RN instead of the UE. RN‑specific
behaviour is not applicable to the UE. For TDD operation, UE behaviour
follows the TDD UL/DL configuration indicated by *tdd-Config* unless
specified otherwise.

The introduction of short TTI allows for more than a single instance of
a TTI to occur within a 1ms subframe and as such the use of the term
\"for each TTI\" shall be read as meaning that the associated actions
shall be executed for all TTIs also in the case of overlapping TTIs
(e.g. a UE may read multiple instances of PDCCH in a downlink subframe).

4.2 MAC architecture
--------------------

The description in this clause is a model and does not specify or
restrict implementations.

RRC is in control of configuration of MAC.

### 4.2.1 MAC Entities

E-UTRA defines two MAC entities; one in the UE and one in the E-UTRAN.
These MAC entities handle the following transport channels:

\- Broadcast Channel (BCH);

\- Downlink Shared Channel(s) (DL-SCH);

\- Paging Channel (PCH);

\- Uplink Shared Channel(s) (UL-SCH);

\- Random Access Channel(s) (RACH);

\- Multicast Channel(s) (MCH);

\- Sidelink Broadcast Channel (SL-BCH);

\- Sidelink Discovery Channel (SL-DCH);

\- Sidelink Shared Channel (SL-SCH).

The exact functions performed by the MAC entities are different in the
UE from those performed in the E-UTRAN.

The RN includes both types of MAC entities; one type for communication
with UEs and one type for communication with the E-UTRAN.

In Dual Connectivity, two MAC entities are configured in the UE: one for
the MCG and one for the SCG. In DAPS handover, two MAC entities are
configured in the UE: one MAC entity for the source cell (source MAC
entity) and one MAC entity for the target cell (target MAC entity). Each
MAC entity is configured by RRC with a serving cell supporting PUCCH
transmission and contention based Random Access. In this specification,
the term SpCell refers to such cell, whereas the term SCell refers to
other serving cells. The term SpCell either refers to the PCell of the
MCG or the PSCell of the SCG depending on if the MAC entity is
associated to the MCG or the SCG, respectively. A Timing Advance Group
containing the SpCell of a MAC entity is referred to as pTAG, whereas
the term sTAG refers to other TAGs.

The functions of the different MAC entities in the UE operate
independently if not otherwise indicated. The timers and paramenters
used in each MAC entity are configured independently if not otherwise
indicated. The Serving Cells, C-RNTI, radio bearers, logical channels,
upper and lower layer entities, LCGs, and HARQ entities considered by
each MAC entity refer to those mapped to that MAC entity if not
otherwise indicated.

If the MAC entity is configured with one or more SCells, there are
multiple DL-SCH and there may be multiple UL-SCH and RACH per MAC
entity; one DL-SCH, one UL-SCH, and one RACH on the SpCell, one DL-SCH,
zero or one UL-SCH and zero or one RACH for each SCell.

The physical layer may perform a listen-before-talk procedure, according
to which transmissions are not performed if the channel is identified as
being occupied or the physical layer may monitor for PUSCH trigger, as
specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], according to which transmissions are not
performed if PUSCH trigger B is not received. In both cases a MAC entity
considers the transmission to have been performed anyway, unless stated
otherwise.

Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates one possible structure for the UE side MAC
entity when SCG is not configured and for each MAC entity during DAPS
handover, and it should not restrict implementation.

Figure 4.2.1-1: MAC structure overview, UE side

Figure 4.2.1-2 illustrates one possible structure for the UE side MAC
entities when MCG and SCG are configured, and it should not restrict
implementation. MBMS reception and SC-PTM reception are excluded from
this figure for simplicity.

Figure 4.2.1-2: MAC structure overview with two MAC entities, UE side

Figure 4.2.1-3 illustrates one possible structure for the UE side MAC
entity when sidelink is configured, and it should not restrict
implementation.

Figure 4.2.1-3: MAC structure overview for sidelink, UE side

4.3 Services
------------

### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers

This clause describes the different services provided by MAC sublayer to
upper layers.

\- data transfer

\- radio resource allocation

### 4.3.2 Services expected from physical layer

The physical layer provides the following services to MAC:

\- data transfer services;

\- signalling of HARQ feedback;

\- signalling of Scheduling Request;

\- measurements (e.g. Channel Quality Indication (CQI)).

The access to the data transfer services is through the use of transport
channels. The characteristics of a transport channel are defined by its
transport format (or format set), specifying the physical layer
processing to be applied to the transport channel in question, such as
channel coding and interleaving, and any service-specific rate matching
as needed.

4.4 Functions
-------------

The following functions are supported by MAC sublayer:

\- mapping between logical channels and transport channels;

\- multiplexing of MAC SDUs from one or different logical channels onto
transport blocks (TB) to be delivered to the physical layer on transport
channels;

\- demultiplexing of MAC SDUs from one or different logical channels
from transport blocks (TB) delivered from the physical layer on
transport channels;

\- scheduling information reporting;

\- error correction through HARQ;

\- priority handling between UEs by means of dynamic scheduling;

\- priority handling between logical channels of one MAC entity;

\- Logical Channel prioritisation;

\- transport format selection;

\- radio resource selection for SL.

The location of the different functions and their relevance for uplink
and downlink respectively is illustrated in Table 4.4-1.

Table 4.4-1: MAC function location and link direction association.

  MAC function                                                   UE   eNB   Downlink   Uplink   Sidelink tx   Sidelink rx
  -------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---------- -------- ------------- -------------
  Mapping between logical channels and transport channels        X          X          X        X             X
                                                                      X     X          X                      
  Multiplexing                                                   X                     X        X             
                                                                      X     X                                 
  Demultiplexing                                                 X          X                                 X
                                                                      X                X                      
  Error correction through HARQ                                  X          X          X        X             X
                                                                      X     X          X                      
  Transport Format Selection                                          X     X          X                      
                                                                 X    X                         X             
  Priority handling between UEs                                       X     X          X                      
  Priority handling between logical channels of one MAC entity        X     X          X                      
  Logical Channel prioritisation                                 X                     X        X             
  Scheduling information reporting                               X                     X                      
  Radio Resource Selection                                       X                              X             

4.5 Channel structure
---------------------

The MAC sublayer operates on the channels defined below; transport
channels are SAPs between MAC and Layer 1, logical channels are SAPs
between MAC and RLC.

### 4.5.1 Transport Channels

The transport channels used by MAC are described in Table 4.5.1-1 below.

Table 4.5.1-1: Transport channels used by MAC

  Transport channel name       Acronym   Downlink   Uplink   Sidelink tx   Sidelink rx
  ---------------------------- --------- ---------- -------- ------------- -------------
  Broadcast Channel            BCH       X                                 
  Downlink Shared Channel      DL-SCH    X                                 
  Paging Channel               PCH       X                                 
  Multicast Channel            MCH       X                                 
  Uplink Shared Channel        UL-SCH               X                      
  Random Access Channel        RACH                 X                      
  Sidelink Broadcast Channel   SL-BCH                        X             X
  Sidelink Discovery Channel   SL-DCH                        X             X
  Sidelink Shared Channel      SL-SCH                        X             X

### 4.5.2 Logical Channels

The MAC layer provides data transfer services on logical channels. A set
of logical channel types is defined for different kinds of data transfer
services as offered by MAC.

Each logical channel type is defined by what type of information is
transferred.

MAC provides the control and traffic channels listed in Table 4.5.2-1
below.

Table 4.5.2-1: Logical channels provided by MAC.

  Logical channel name                          Acronym   Control channel   Traffic channel
  --------------------------------------------- --------- ----------------- -----------------
  Broadcast Control Channel                     BCCH      X                 
  Bandwidth Reduced Broadcast Control Channel   BR-BCCH   X                 
  Paging Control Channel                        PCCH      X                 
  Common Control Channel                        CCCH      X                 
  Dedicated Control Channel                     DCCH      X                 
  Multicast Control Channel                     MCCH      X                 
  Single Cell Multicast Control Channel         SC-MCCH   X                 
  Dedicated Traffic Channel                     DTCH                        X
  Multicast Traffic Channel                     MTCH                        X
  Single-Cell Multicast Traffic Channel         SC-MTCH                     X
  Sidelink Traffic Channel                      STCH                        X
  Sidelink Broadcast Control Channel            SBCCH     X                 

### 4.5.3 Mapping of Transport Channels to Logical Channels

The mapping of logical channels on transport channels depends on the
multiplexing that is configured by RRC.

#### 4.5.3.1 Uplink mapping

The MAC entity is responsible for mapping logical channels for the
uplink onto uplink transport channels. The uplink logical channels can
be mapped as described in Figure 4.5.3.1-1 and Table 4.5.3.1-1.

Figure 4.5.3.1-1

Table 4.5.3.1-1: Uplink channel mapping.

  ------------------------------------
  Transport channel\   UL-SCH   RACH
  Logical channel               
  -------------------- -------- ------
  CCCH                 X        

  DCCH                 X        

  DTCH                 X        
  ------------------------------------

#### 4.5.3.2 Downlink mapping

The MAC entity is responsible for mapping the downlink logical channels
to downlink transport channels. The downlink logical channels can be
mapped as described in Figure 4.5.3.2-1 and Table 4.5.3.2-1.

Figure 4.5.3.2-1

Table 4.5.3.2-1: Downlink channel mapping.

  -----------------------------------------------
  Transport channel\   BCH   PCH   DL-SCH   MCH
  Logical channel                           
  -------------------- ----- ----- -------- -----
  BCCH                 X           X        

  BR-BCCH                          X        

  PCCH                       X              

  CCCH                             X        

  DCCH                             X        

  DTCH                             X        

  MCCH                                      X

  MTCH                                      X

  SC-MCCH                          X        

  SC-MTCH                          X        
  -----------------------------------------------

#### 4.5.3.3 Sidelink mapping

The MAC entity is responsible for mapping the sidelink logical channels
to sidelink transport channels. The sidelink logical channels can be
mapped as described in Figure 4.5.3.3-1 and Table 4.5.3.3-1.

Figure 4.5.3.3-1

Table 4.5.3.3-1: Sidelink channel mapping.

  -----------------------------------------------
  Transport channel\   SL-SCH   SL-BCH   SL-DCH
  Logical channel                        
  -------------------- -------- -------- --------
  STCH                 X                 

  SBCCH                         X        
  -----------------------------------------------

5 MAC procedures
================

5.1 Random Access procedure
---------------------------

### 5.1.1 Random Access Procedure initialization

The Random Access procedure described in this clause is initiated by a
PDCCH order, by the MAC sublayer itself or by the RRC sublayer. Random
Access procedure on an SCell shall only be initiated by a PDCCH order.
If a MAC entity receives a PDCCH transmission consistent with a PDCCH
order, as specified inTS 36.212 \[5\], masked with its C-RNTI, and for a
specific Serving Cell, the MAC entity shall initiate a Random Access
procedure on this Serving Cell. For Random Access on the SpCell a PDCCH
order or RRC optionally indicate the *ra-PreambleIndex* and the
*ra-PRACH-MaskIndex, except for NB-IoT where the subcarrier index is
indicated; and for Random Access on an SCell, the PDCCH order indicates
the ra-PreambleIndex* with a value different from 000000 and the
*ra-PRACH-MaskIndex*. For the pTAG preamble transmission on PRACH and
reception of a PDCCH order are only supported for SpCell. If the UE is
an NB-IoT UE, the Random Access procedure is performed on the anchor
carrier or one of the non-anchor carriers for which PRACH resource has
been configured in system information.

Before the procedure can be initiated, the following information for
related Serving Cell is assumed to be available for UEs other than
NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\], unless explicitly stated otherwise:

\- the available set of PRACH resources for the transmission of the
Random Access Preamble, *prach-ConfigIndex*.

\- the groups of Random Access Preambles and the set of available Random
Access Preambles in each group (SpCell only):

The preambles that are contained in Random Access Preambles group A and
Random Access Preambles group B are calculated from the parameters
*numberOfRA-Preambles* and *sizeOfRA-PreamblesGroupA*:

If *sizeOfRA-PreamblesGroupA* is equal to *numberOfRA-Preambles* then
there is no Random Access Preambles group B. The preambles in Random
Access Preamble group A are the preambles 0 to
*sizeOfRA-PreamblesGroupA* -- 1 and, if it exists, the preambles in
Random Access Preamble group B are the preambles
*sizeOfRA-PreamblesGroupA* to *numberOfRA-Preambles* -- 1 from the set
of 64 preambles as defined in TS 36.211 \[7\].

\- if Random Access Preambles group B exists, the thresholds,
*messagePowerOffsetGroupB* and *messageSizeGroupA*, the configured UE
transmitted power of the Serving Cell performing the Random Access
Procedure, P~CMAX,\ c~, as specified in TS 36.101 \[10\], and the offset
between the preamble and Msg3, *deltaPreambleMsg3*, that are required
for selecting one of the two groups of Random Access Preambles (SpCell
only).

\- the RA response window size *ra-ResponseWindowSize*.

\- the power-ramping factor *powerRampingStep*.

\- the maximum number of preamble transmission *preambleTransMax*.

\- the initial preamble power *preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower*.

\- the preamble format based offset DELTA\_PREAMBLE (see clause 7.6).

\- the maximum number of Msg3 HARQ transmissions *maxHARQ-Msg3Tx*
(SpCell only).

\- the Contention Resolution Timer *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer*
(SpCell only).

NOTE 1: The above parameters may be updated from upper layers before
each Random Access procedure is initiated.

The following information for related Serving Cell is assumed to be
available before the procedure can be initiated for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs
or UEs in enhanced coverage, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\]:

\- if the UE is a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- the available set of PRACH resources associated with each enhanced
coverage level supported in the Serving Cell for the transmission of the
Random Access Preamble, *prach-ConfigIndex*.

\- for EDT, the available set of PRACH resources associated with EDT for
each enhanced coverage level supported in the Serving Cell for the
transmission of the Random Access Preamble, *prach-ConfigIndex*.

\- the groups of Random Access Preambles and the set of available Random
Access Preambles in each group(SpCell only):

\- except for EDT:

\- if *sizeOfRA-PreamblesGroupA* is not equal to *numberOfRA-Preambles*:

\- Random Access Preambles group A and B exist and are calculated as
above;

\- else:

\- the preambles that are contained in Random Access Preamble groups for
each enhanced coverage level, if it exists, are the preambles
*firstPreamble* to *lastPreamble*.

\- for EDT, the preambles that are contained in Random Access Preamble
groups for each enhanced coverage level, if it exists, are the preambles
*firstPreamble* to *edt-LastPreamble* if PRACH resources configured by
*edt-PRACH-ParametersCE* are different from the PRACH resources
configured by *PRACH-ParametersCE* for all enhanced coverage levels and
*edt-PRACH-ParametersCE* for all other enhanced coverage levels,
otherwise the preambles for EDT are the preambles *lastPreamble*+1 to
*edt-LastPreamble*.

NOTE 2: When a PRACH resource is shared for multiple enhanced coverage
levels, and enhanced coverage levels are differentiated by different
preamble indices, Group A and Group B is not used for this PRACH
resource.

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE:

\- the available set of PRACH resources supported in the Serving Cell on
the anchor carrier, *nprach-ParametersList*, and on the non-anchor
carriers, in *ul-ConfigList*.

\- for EDT, the available set of PRACH resources associated with EDT on
anchor carrier, *nprach-ParametersList-EDT*, and on the non-anchor
carriers, in *ul-ConfigList*.

\- for random access resource selection and preamble transmission:

\- a PRACH resource is mapped into an enhanced coverage level.

\- each PRACH resource contains a set of *nprach-NumSubcarriers*
subcarriers which can be partitioned into one or two groups for
single/multi-tone Msg3 transmission by
*nprach-SubcarrierMSG3-RangeStart* and *nprach-NumCBRA-StartSubcarriers*
as specified in TS 36.211 \[7\], clause 10.1.6.1. Each group is referred
to as a Random Access Preamble group below in the procedure text.

\- a subcarrier is identified by the subcarrier index in the range:\
\[*nprach-SubcarrierOffset*, *nprach-SubcarrierOffset* +
*nprach-NumSubcarriers* -1\]

\- each subcarrier of a Random Access Preamble group corresponds to a
Random Access Preamble.

\- when the subcarrier index is explicitly sent from the eNB as part of
a PDCCH order *ra-PreambleIndex* shall be set to the signalled
subcarrier index.

\- the mapping of the PRACH resources into enhanced coverage levels is
determined according to the following:

\- the number of enhanced coverage levels is equal to one plus the
number of RSRP thresholds present in *rsrp-ThresholdsPrachInfoList*.

\- each enhanced coverage level has one anchor carrier PRACH resource
present in *nprach-ParametersList* and zero or one PRACH resource for
each non-anchor carrier signalled in *ul-ConfigList*.

\- for EDT, each enhanced coverage level has zero or one anchor carrier
PRACH resource present in *nprach-ParametersList-EDT* and zero or one
PRACH resource for each non-anchor carrier signalled in *ul-ConfigList*.

\- enhanced coverage levels are numbered from 0 and the mapping of PRACH
resources to enhanced coverage levels are done in increasing
*numRepetitionsPerPreambleAttempt* order.

\- when multiple carriers provide PRACH resources for the same enhanced
coverage level, the UE will randomly select one of them using the
following selection probabilities:

\- the selection probability of the anchor carrier PRACH resource for
the given enhanced coverage level, *nprach-ProbabilityAnchor*, is given
by the corresponding entry in *nprach-ProbabilityAnchorList*

\- the selection probability is equal for all non-anchor carrier PRACH
resources and the probability of selecting one PRACH resource on a given
non-anchor carrier is (1- *nprach-ProbabilityAnchor*)/(number of
non-anchor NPRACH resources)

\- the criteria to select PRACH resources based on RSRP measurement per
enhanced coverage level supported in the Serving Cell
*rsrp-ThresholdsPrachInfoList*.

\- the maximum number of preamble transmission attempts per enhanced
coverage level supported in the Serving Cell *maxNumPreambleAttemptCE*.

\- the number of repetitions required for preamble transmission per
attempt for each enhanced coverage level supported in the Serving Cell
*numRepetitionPerPreambleAttempt*.

\- the configured UE transmitted power of the Serving Cell performing
the Random Access Procedure, P~CMAX,\ c~, as specified in
TS 36.101 \[10\].

\- the RA response window size *ra-ResponseWindowSize* and the
Contention Resolution Timer *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* (SpCell
only) per enhanced coverage level supported in the Serving Cell.

\- for EDT, the Contention Resolution Timer
*mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* configured for EDT (SpCell only) per
enhanced coverage level supported in the Serving Cell.

\- the power-ramping factor *powerRampingStep* and optionally
*powerRampingStepCE1*.

\- the maximum number of preamble transmission *preambleTransMax-CE*.

\- the initial preamble power *preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* and
optionally *preambleInitialReceivedTargetPowerCE1*.

\- the preamble format based offset DELTA\_PREAMBLE (see clause 7.6).

\- for NB-IoT, the use of contention free random access
*ra-CFRA-Config*.

The Random Access procedure shall be performed as follows:

\- flush the Msg3 buffer;

\- set the PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER to 1;

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE, a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- set the PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE to 1;

\- if the starting enhanced coverage level, or for NB-IoT the starting
number of NPRACH repetitions, has been indicated in the PDCCH order
which initiated the Random Access procedure, or if the starting enhanced
coverage level has been provided by upper layers:

\- the MAC entity considers itself to be in that enhanced coverage level
regardless of the measured RSRP;

\- else:

\- if the RSRP threshold of enhanced coverage level 3 is configured by
upper layers in *rsrp-ThresholdsPrachInfoList* and the measured RSRP is
less than the RSRP threshold of enhanced coverage level 3 and the UE is
capable of enhanced coverage level 3 then:

\- the MAC entity considers to be in enhanced coverage level 3;

\- else if the RSRP threshold of enhanced coverage level 2 configured by
upper layers in *rsrp-ThresholdsPrachInfoList* and the measured RSRP is
less than the RSRP threshold of enhanced coverage level 2 and the UE is
capable of enhanced coverage level 2 then:

\- the MAC entity considers to be in enhanced coverage level 2;

\- else if the measured RSRP is less than the RSRP threshold of enhanced
coverage level 1 as configured by upper layers in
*rsrp-ThresholdsPrachInfoList* then:

\- the MAC entity considers to be in enhanced coverage level 1;

\- else:

\- the MAC entity considers to be in enhanced coverage level 0;

\- set the backoff parameter value to 0 ms;

\- for the RN, suspend any RN subframe configuration;

\- proceed to the selection of the Random Access Resource (see clause
5.1.2).

NOTE 3: There is only one Random Access procedure ongoing at any point
in time in a MAC entity. If the MAC entity receives a request for a new
Random Access procedure while another is already ongoing in the MAC
entity, it is up to UE implementation whether to continue with the
ongoing procedure or start with the new procedure.

NOTE 4: An NB-IoT UE measures RSRP on the anchor carrier.

### 5.1.2 Random Access Resource selection

The Random Access Resource selection procedure shall be performed as
follows:

\- for BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage or NB-IoT UEs, if EDT is
initiated by the upper layers:

\- if the message size (UL data available for transmission plus MAC
header and, where required, MAC control elements) is larger than the TB
size signalled in *edt-TBS* for the selected enhanced coverage level for
EDT; or

\- if the PRACH resource associated with EDT for the selected enhanced
coverage level is not available:

\- indicate to upper layers that EDT is cancelled;

\- for BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, select the PRACH resource set
corresponding to the selected enhanced coverage level. For EDT, the
PRACH resource set shall correspond to the set associated with EDT for
the selected enhanced coverage level.

\- if, except for NB-IoT, *ra-PreambleIndex* (Random Access Preamble)
and *ra-PRACH-MaskIndex* (PRACH Mask Index) have been explicitly
signalled and *ra-PreambleIndex* is not 000000:

\- the Random Access Preamble and the PRACH Mask Index are those
explicitly signalled;

\- else if, for NB-IoT, *ra-PreambleIndex* (Random Access Preamble) and
PRACH resource have been explicitly signalled:

\- the PRACH resource is that explicitly signalled;

\- if the *ra-PreambleIndex* signalled is not 000000:

\- if *ra-CFRA-Config* is configured:

\- the Random Access Preamble is set to *nprach-SubcarrierOffset* +
*nprach-NumCBRA-StartSubcarriers* + (*ra-PreambleIndex* modulo
(*nprach-NumSubcarriers* - *nprach-NumCBRA-StartSubcarriers*)), where
*nprach-SubcarrierOffset*, *nprach-NumCBRA-StartSubcarriers* and
*nprach-NumSubcarriers* are parameters in the currently used PRACH
resource.

\- else:

\- the Random Access Preamble is set to *nprach-SubcarrierOffset* +
(*ra-PreambleIndex* modulo *nprach-NumSubcarriers*), where
*nprach-SubcarrierOffset* and *nprach-NumSubcarriers* are parameters in
the currently used PRACH resource.

\- else:

\- select the Random Access Preamble group according to the PRACH
resource and the support for multi-tone Msg3 transmission. A UE
supporting multi-tone Msg3 shall only select the single-tone Msg3 Random
Access Preambles group if there is no multi-tone Msg3 Random Access
Preambles group.

\- randomly select a Random Access Preamble within the selected group.

\- else the Random Access Preamble shall be selected by the MAC entity
as follows:

\- if the UE is a BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage and EDT is initiated:

\- select the Random Access Preambles group corresponding to PRACH
resource for EDT for the selected enhanced coverage level.

\- else if the UE is a BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage and Random
Access Preamble group B does not exist:

\- select the Random Access Preambles group corresponding to the
selected enhanced coverage level.

\- else if the UE is an NB-IoT UE:

\- if the UE supports carrier specific NRSRP thresholds for NPRACH
resource selection and *rsrp-ThresholdsPrachInfoList-r16* is signalled
for a carrier in *ul-ConfigList*:

\- if the measured RSRP is lower than the RSRP threshold corresponding
to the selected enhanced coverage level in
*rsrp-ThresholdsPrachInfoList-r16*:

\- do not consider the PRACH resource on this non-anchor carrier for
PRACH resource selection.

\- randomly select one of the PRACH resources corresponding to the
selected enhanced coverage level according to the configured probability
distribution, and select the Random Access Preambles group corresponding
to the PRACH resource and the support for multi-tone Msg3 transmission.
A UE supporting multi-tone Msg3 shall only select the single-tone Msg3
Random Access Preambles group if there is no multi-tone Msg3 Random
Access Preambles group. For EDT, the PRACH resource shall correspond to
resource associated with EDT for the selected enhanced coverage level.

\- else if Msg3 has not yet been transmitted, the MAC entity shall:

\- if Random Access Preambles group B exists and any of the following
events occur:

\- the potential message size (UL data available for transmission plus
MAC header and, where required, MAC control elements) is greater than
*messageSizeGroupA* and the pathloss is less than P~CMAX,c~ (of the
Serving Cell performing the Random Access Procedure) --
*preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* -- *deltaPreambleMsg3* --
*messagePowerOffsetGroupB*;

\- the Random Access procedure was initiated for the CCCH logical
channel and the CCCH SDU size plus MAC header is greater than
*messageSizeGroupA*;

\- select the Random Access Preambles group B;

\- else:

\- select the Random Access Preambles group A.

\- else, if Msg3 is being retransmitted, the MAC entity shall:

\- select the same group of Random Access Preambles as was used for the
preamble transmission attempt corresponding to the first transmission of
Msg3.

\- randomly select a Random Access Preamble within the selected group.
The random function shall be such that each of the allowed selections
can be chosen with equal probability;

\- except for NB-IoT, set PRACH Mask Index to 0.

\- determine the next available subframe containing PRACH permitted by
the restrictions given by the *prach-ConfigIndex* (except for NB-IoT)*,*
the PRACH Mask Index (except for NB-IoT, see clause 7.3), physical layer
timing requirements, as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], and in case of
NB-IoT, the subframes occupied by PRACH resources related to a higher
enhanced coverage level (a MAC entity may take into account the possible
occurrence of measurement gaps when determining the next available PRACH
subframe);

\- except for NB-IoT:

\- if the transmission mode is TDD and the PRACH Mask Index is equal to
zero:

\- if *ra-PreambleIndex* was explicitly signalled and it was not 000000
(i.e., not selected by MAC):

\- randomly select, with equal probability, one PRACH from the PRACHs
available in the determined subframe.

\- else:

\- randomly select, with equal probability, one PRACH from the PRACHs
available in the determined subframe and the next two consecutive
subframes.

\- else:

\- determine a PRACH within the determined subframe in accordance with
the requirements of the PRACH Mask Index, if any.

\- for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, select the
*ra-ResponseWindowSize* and *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer*
corresponding to the selected enhanced coverage level and PRACH.

\- proceed to the transmission of the Random Access Preamble (see clause
5.1.3).

### 5.1.3 Random Access Preamble transmission

The random-access procedure shall be performed as follows:

\- set PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER to
*preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* + DELTA\_PREAMBLE +
(PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER -- 1) \* *powerRampingStep*;

\- if the UE is a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- the PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER is set to:\
PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER - 10 \*
log10(*numRepetitionPerPreambleAttempt*);

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE:

\- for enhanced coverage level 0, the PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER
is set to:\
PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER - 10 \*
log10(*numRepetitionPerPreambleAttempt*)

\- for FDD if the UE supports enhanced random access power control and
*PowerRampingParameters-NB-v1450* is configured by upper layers, or for
TDD:

\- the MSG3\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER is set to
*preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* +
(PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE -- 1) \* *powerRampingStep*;

\- for other enhanced coverage levels:

\- for FDD if the UE supports enhanced random access power control and
*PowerRampingParameters-NB-v1450* is configured by upper layers, or for
TDD; and

\- if the starting enhanced coverage level was enhanced coverage level 0
or enhanced coverage level 1:

\- if the MAC entity considers itself to be in enhanced coverage level 1
and if *powerRampingStepCE1* and *preambleInitialReceivedTargetPowerCE1*
have been configured by upper layers:

\- the PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER is set to
*preambleInitialReceivedTargetPowerCE1* + DELTA\_PREAMBLE +
(PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE -- 1) \* *powerRampingStepCE1* - 10
\* log10(*numRepetitionPerPreambleAttempt*);

\- the MSG3\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER is set to
*preambleInitialReceivedTargetPowerCE1* +
(PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE -- 1) \* *powerRampingStepCE1*;

\- else:

\- the PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER is set to
*preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* + DELTA\_PREAMBLE +
(PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE -- 1) \* *powerRampingStep* - 10 \*
log10(*numRepetitionPerPreambleAttempt*);

\- the MSG3\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER is set to
*preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* +
(PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE -- 1) \* *powerRampingStep*;

\- else:

\- the PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER is set corresponding to the max
UE output power;

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE, a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- instruct the physical layer to transmit a preamble with the number of
repetitions required for preamble transmission corresponding to the
selected preamble group (i.e., *numRepetitionPerPreambleAttempt*) using
the selected PRACH corresponding to the selected enhanced coverage
level, corresponding RA-RNTI, preamble index or for NB-IoT subcarrier
index, and PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER.

\- else:

\- instruct the physical layer to transmit a preamble using the selected
PRACH, corresponding RA-RNTI, preamble index and
PREAMBLE\_RECEIVED\_TARGET\_POWER.

### 5.1.4 Random Access Response reception

Once the Random Access Preamble is transmitted and regardless of the
possible occurrence of a measurement gap or a Sidelink Discovery Gap for
Transmission or a Sidelink Discovery Gap for Reception, and regardless
of the prioritization of V2X sidelink communication described in clause
5.14.1.2.2, the MAC entity shall monitor the PDCCH of the SpCell for
Random Access Response(s) identified by the RA-RNTI defined below, in
the RA Response window which starts at the subframe that contains the
end of the preamble transmission,as specified in TS 36.211 \[7\], plus
three subframes and has length *ra-ResponseWindowSize*. If the UE is a
BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage, RA Response window starts at the
subframe that contains the end of the last preamble repetition plus
three subframes and has length *ra-ResponseWindowSize* for the
corresponding enhanced coverage level. If the UE is an NB-IoT UE, RA
Response window starts at the subframe that contains the end of the last
preamble repetition plus X subframes and has length
*ra-ResponseWindowSize* for the corresponding enhanced coverage level,
where value X is determined from Table 5.1.4-1 based on the used
preamble format and the number of NPRACH repetitions.

Table 5.1.4-1: Subframes between preamble transmission and RA Response
Window in NB-IoT

  TDD/FDD mode   Preamble format   Number of NPRACH repetitions   X
  -------------- ----------------- ------------------------------ ----
  FDD            0 or 1            \>= 64                         41
  FDD            0 or 1            \< 64                          4
  FDD            2                 \>= 16                         41
  FDD            2                 \< 16                          4
  TDD            Any               Any                            4

The RA-RNTI associated with the PRACH in which the Random Access
Preamble is transmitted, is computed as:

RA-RNTI= 1 + t\_id + 10\*f\_id

where t\_id is the index of the first subframe of the specified PRACH
(0≤ t\_id \<10), and f\_id is the index of the specified PRACH within
that subframe, in ascending order of frequency domain (0≤ f\_id\< 6)
except for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage. If the PRACH
resource is on a *TDD carrier,* the f\_id is set to , where is defined
in clause 5.7.1 of TS 36.211 \[7\].

For BL UEs and UEs in enhanced coverage, RA-RNTI associated with the
PRACH in which the Random Access Preamble is transmitted, is computed
as:

**RA-RNTI=1+t\_id + 10\*f\_id + 60\*(SFN\_id mod (Wmax/10))**

where t\_id is the index of the first subframe of the specified PRACH
(0≤ t\_id \<10), f\_id is the index of the specified PRACH within that
subframe, in ascending order of frequency domain (0≤ f\_id\< 6), SFN\_id
is the index of the first radio frame of the specified PRACH, and Wmax
is 400, maximum possible RAR window size in subframes for BL UEs or UEs
in enhanced coverage. If the PRACH resource is on a *TDD carrier,* the
f\_id is set to , where is defined in clause 5.7.1 of TS 36.211 \[7\].

For NB-IoT UEs, the RA-RNTI associated with the PRACH in which the
Random Access Preamble is transmitted, is computed as:

**RA-RNTI=1 + floor(SFN\_id/4) + 256\*carrier\_id**

where SFN\_id is the index of the first radio frame of the specified
PRACH and carrier\_id is the index of the UL carrier associated with the
specified PRACH. The carrier\_id of the anchor carrier is 0.

For NB-IoT UEs operating in TDD mode, the RA-RNTI associated with the
PRACH in which the Random Access Preamble is transmitted, is computed
as:

RA-RNTI = 1 + floor(SFN\_id/4) + 256\*(H-SFN mod 2)

where SFN\_id is the index of the first radio frame of the specified
PRACH and H-SFN is the index of the first hyper frame of the specified
PRACH. The PDCCH transmission and the PRACH resource are on the same
carrier.

The MAC entity may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s) after
successful reception of a Random Access Response containing Random
Access Preamble identifiers that matches the transmitted Random Access
Preamble.

\- If a downlink assignment for this TTI has been received on the PDCCH
for the RA-RNTI and the received TB is successfully decoded, the MAC
entity shall regardless of the possible occurrence of a measurement gap
or a Sidelink Discovery Gap for Transmission or a Sidelink Discovery Gap
for Reception, and regardless of the prioritization of V2X sidelink
communication described in clause 5.14.1.2.2:

\- if the Random Access Response contains a Backoff Indicator subheader:

\- set the backoff parameter value as indicated by the BI field of the
Backoff Indicator subheader and Table 7.2-1, except for NB-IoT where the
value from Table 7.2-2 is used.

\- else, set the backoff parameter value to 0 ms.

\- if the Random Access Response contains a Random Access Preamble
identifier corresponding to the transmitted Random Access Preamble (see
clause 5.1.3), the MAC entity shall:

\- consider this Random Access Response reception successful and apply
the following actions for the serving cell where the Random Access
Preamble was transmitted:

\- process the received Timing Advance Command (see clause 5.2);

\- indicate the *preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower* and the amount of
power ramping applied to the latest preamble transmission to lower
layers (i.e., (PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER -- 1) \*
*powerRampingStep*);

\- if the SCell is configured with *ul-Configuration-r14*, ignore the
received UL grant otherwise process the received UL grant value and
indicate it to the lower layers;

\- if, except for NB-IoT, *ra-PreambleIndex* was explicitly signalled
and it was not 000000 (i.e., not selected by MAC):

\- consider the Random Access procedure successfully completed.

\- else if, the UE is an NB-IoT UE, *ra-PreambleIndex* was explicitly
signalled and it was not 000000 (i.e., not selected by MAC) and
*ra-CFRA-Config* is configured:

\- consider the Random Access procedure successfully completed.

\- the UL grant provided in the Random Access Response message is valid
only for the configured carrier (i.e. UL carrier used prior to this
Random Access procedure).

\- else:

\- if the Random Access Preamble was selected by the MAC entity; or

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE, the *ra-PreambleIndex* was explicitly
signalled and it was not 000000 and *ra-CFRA-Config* is not configured:

\- set the Temporary C-RNTI to the value received in the Random Access
Response message no later than at the time of the first transmission
corresponding to the UL grant provided in the Random Access Response
message;

\- if the Random Access Preamble associated with EDT was transmitted and
UL grant provided in the Random Access Response message is not for EDT:

\- indicate to upper layers that EDT is cancelled due to UL grant not
being for EDT;

\- for CP-EDT, flush the Msg3 buffer.

\- for UP-EDT, update the MAC PDU in the Msg3 buffer in accordance with
the uplink grant received in the Random Access Response.

\- if the Random Access Preamble associated with EDT was transmitted,
the UL grant was received in a Random Access Response for EDT, and there
is a MAC PDU in the Msg3 buffer:

\- if the TB size according to *edt-SmallTBS-Enabled* and as described
in clause 8.6.2 and 16.3.3 of TS 36.213 \[2\] does not match the size of
the MAC PDU in the Msg3 buffer:

\- the MAC entity shall update the MAC PDU in the Msg3 buffer in
accordance with the TB size.

\- if this is the first successfully received Random Access Response
within this Random Access procedure; or

\- if CP-EDT is cancelled due to the UL grant provided in the Random
Access Response message not being for EDT:

\- if the transmission is not being made for the CCCH logical channel,
indicate to the Multiplexing and assembly entity to include a C-RNTI MAC
control element in the subsequent uplink transmission;

\- obtain the MAC PDU to transmit from the \"Multiplexing and assembly\"
entity and store it in the Msg3 buffer.

NOTE 1: When an uplink transmission is required, e.g., for contention
resolution, the eNB should not provide a grant smaller than 56 bits (or
88 bits for NB-IoT) in the Random Access Response.

NOTE 2: If within a Random Access procedure, an uplink grant provided in
the Random Access Response for the same group of Random Access Preambles
has a different size than the first uplink grant allocated during that
Random Access procedure, the UE behavior is not defined except for EDT.

If no Random Access Response or, for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in
enhanced coverage for mode B operation, no PDCCH scheduling Random
Access Response is received within the RA Response window, or if none of
all received Random Access Responses contains a Random Access Preamble
identifier corresponding to the transmitted Random Access Preamble, the
Random Access Response reception is considered not successful and the
MAC entity shall:

\- if the notification of power ramping suspension has not been received
from lower layers:

\- increment PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER by 1;

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE, a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- if PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER = *preambleTransMax-CE* + 1:

\- if the Random Access Preamble is transmitted on the SpCell:

\- indicate a Random Access problem to upper layers;

\- if NB-IoT:

\- consider the Random Access procedure unsuccessfully completed;

\- else:

\- if PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER = *preambleTransMax* + 1:

\- if the Random Access Preamble is transmitted on the SpCell:

\- indicate a Random Access problem to upper layers;

\- if the Random Access Preamble is transmitted on an SCell:

\- consider the Random Access procedure unsuccessfully completed.

\- if in this Random Access procedure, the Random Access Preamble was
selected by MAC:

\- based on the backoff parameter, select a random backoff time
according to a uniform distribution between 0 and the Backoff Parameter
Value;

\- delay the subsequent Random Access transmission by the backoff time;

\- else if the SCell where the Random Access Preamble was transmitted is
configured with *ul-Configuration-r14*:

\- delay the subsequent Random Access transmission until the Random
Access Procedure is initiated by a PDCCH order with the same
*ra-PreambleIndex and ra-PRACH-MaskIndex*;

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE, a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- increment PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE by 1;

\- if PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE = *maxNumPreambleAttemptCE*
for the corresponding enhanced coverage level + 1:

\- reset PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER\_CE;

\- consider to be in the next enhanced coverage level, if it is
supported by the Serving Cell and the UE, otherwise stay in the current
enhanced coverage level;

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE:

\- if the Random Access Procedure was initiated by a PDCCH order:

\- select the PRACH resource in the list of UL carriers providing a
PRACH resource for the selected enhanced coverage level for which the
carrier index is equal to ((*Carrier Indication* from the PDCCH order)
modulo (Number of PRACH resources in the selected enhanced coverage));

\- consider the selected PRACH resource as explicitly signalled;

\- proceed to the selection of a Random Access Resource (see clause
5.1.2).

### 5.1.5 Contention Resolution

Contention Resolution is based on either C-RNTI on PDCCH of the SpCell
or UE Contention Resolution Identity on DL-SCH.

Once Msg3 is transmitted, the MAC entity shall:

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE, a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- if, for EDT, *edt-SmallTBS-Enabled* is set to *TRUE* for the
corresponding PRACH resource:

\- start *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* and restart
*mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* at each HARQ retransmission of the
bundle in the subframe corresponding to the last subframe of a PUSCH
transmission corresponding to the largest TBS indicated by the UL grant.

\- else:

\- start *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* and restart
*mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* at each HARQ retransmission of the
bundle in the subframe containing the last repetition of the
corresponding PUSCH transmission.

\- else:

\- start *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* and restart
*mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* at each HARQ retransmission.

\- regardless of the possible occurrence of a measurement gap or
Sidelink Discovery Gap for Reception, monitor the PDCCH until
*mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* expires or is stopped;

\- if notification of a reception of a PDCCH transmission is received
from lower layers, the MAC entity shall:

\- if the C-RNTI MAC control element was included in Msg3:

\- if the Random Access procedure was initiated by the MAC sublayer
itself or by the RRC sublayer and the PDCCH transmission is addressed to
the C-RNTI and contains an UL grant for a new transmission; or

\- if the Random Access procedure was initiated by a PDCCH order and the
PDCCH transmission is addressed to the C-RNTI:

\- consider this Contention Resolution successful;

\- stop *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer*;

\- discard the Temporary C-RNTI;

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE:

\- the UL grant or DL assignment contained in the PDCCH transmission is
valid only for the configured carrier (i.e. UL/DL carrier used prior to
this Random Access procedure).

\- consider this Random Access procedure successfully completed.

\- else if the CCCH SDU was included in Msg3 and the PDCCH transmission
is addressed to its Temporary C-RNTI:

\- if the MAC PDU is successfully decoded:

\- stop *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer*;

\- if the MAC PDU contains a UE Contention Resolution Identity MAC
control element; and

\- if the UE Contention Resolution Identity included in the MAC control
element matches the 48 first bits of the CCCH SDU transmitted in Msg3:

\- consider this Contention Resolution successful and finish the
disassembly and demultiplexing of the MAC PDU;

\- set the C-RNTI to the value of the Temporary C-RNTI;

\- discard the Temporary C-RNTI;

\- consider this Random Access procedure successfully completed.

\- else:

\- discard the Temporary C-RNTI;

\- consider this Contention Resolution not successful and discard the
successfully decoded MAC PDU.

\- if *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* expires:

\- for BL UEs or UEs in CE or NB-IoT UEs:

\- if notification of a reception of a PDCCH transmission has been
received from lower layers before *mac-ContentionResolutionTimer*
expired; and

\- if the MAC PDU received until the subframe that contains the last
repetition of the corresponding PDSCH transmission is successfully
decoded; and

\- if the MAC PDU contains a UE Contention Resolution Identity MAC
control element; and

\- if the UE Contention Resolution Identity included in the MAC control
element matches the 48 first bits of the CCCH SDU transmitted in Msg3:

\- consider this Contention Resolution successful and finish the
disassembly and demultiplexing of the MAC PDU;

\- set the C-RNTI to the value of the Temporary C-RNTI;

\- discard the Temporary C-RNTI;

\- consider this Random Access procedure successfully completed.

\- else:

\- discard the Temporary C-RNTI;

\- consider this Contention Resolution not successful.

\- except for BL UEs or UEs in CE or NB-IoT UEs:

\- discard the Temporary C-RNTI;

\- consider the Contention Resolution not successful.

\- if the Contention Resolution is considered not successful the MAC
entity shall:

\- flush the HARQ buffer used for transmission of the MAC PDU in the
Msg3 buffer;

\- if the notification of power ramping suspension has not been received
from lower layers:

\- increment PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER by 1;

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE, a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- if PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER = *preambleTransMax-CE* + 1:

\- indicate a Random Access problem to upper layers;

\- if NB-IoT:

\- consider the Random Access procedure unsuccessfully completed.

\- else:

\- if PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER = *preambleTransMax* + 1:

\- indicate a Random Access problem to upper layers.

\- based on the backoff parameter, select a random backoff time
according to a uniform distribution between 0 and the Backoff Parameter
Value;

\- delay the subsequent Random Access transmission by the backoff time;

\- proceed to the selection of a Random Access Resource (see clause
5.1.2).

### 5.1.6 Completion of the Random Access procedure

At completion of the Random Access procedure, the MAC entity shall:

\- discard explicitly signalled *ra-PreambleIndex* and
*ra-PRACH-MaskIndex*, if any;

\- flush the HARQ buffer used for transmission of the MAC PDU in the
Msg3 buffer.

Upon successful completion of the Random Access procedure initiated for
DAPS handover, the target MAC entity shall:

\- indicate the successful completion of the Random Access Procedure to
the upper layers.

In addition, the RN shall resume the suspended RN subframe
configuration, if any.

5.2 Maintenance of Uplink Time Alignment
----------------------------------------

The MAC entity has a configurable timer *timeAlignmentTimer* per TAG.
The *timeAlignmentTimer* is used to control how long the MAC entity
considers the Serving Cells belonging to the associated TAG to be uplink
time aligned, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\].

The MAC entity shall:

\- when a Timing Advance Command MAC control element is received and if
a N~TA~ has been stored or maintained with the indicated TAG:

\- except when the received Timing Advance Command MAC control element
is addressed with a PUR-RNTI:

\- apply the Timing Advance Command for the indicated TAG;

\- start or restart the *timeAlignmentTimer* associated with the
indicated TAG.

\- when a Timing Advance Command is received in a Random Access Response
message for a serving cell belonging to a TAG:

\- if the UE is configured with *pur-Config* (see TS 36.331 \[8\]) and
if a N~TA~ has been stored or maintained and no temporary N~TA~ has been
stored:

\- store current N~TA~ as temporary N~TA~ (see clause 5.4.7.2).

\- if the Random Access Preamble was not selected by the MAC entity:

\- apply the Timing Advance Command for this TAG;

\- start or restart the *timeAlignmentTimer* associated with this TAG.

\- else, if the *timeAlignmentTimer* associated with this TAG is not
running:

\- apply the Timing Advance Command for this TAG;

\- start the *timeAlignmentTimer* associated with this TAG;

\- when the contention resolution is considered not successful as
described in clause 5.1.5, stop *timeAlignmentTimer* associated with
this TAG*.*

\- else:

\- ignore the received Timing Advance Command.

\- when the MAC entity is configured with *rach-Skip* or *rach-SkipSCG*:

\- apply timing advance value indicated by *targetTA* in *rach-Skip* or
*rach-SkipSCG* for the pTAG;

\- start the *timeAlignmentTimer* associated with this TAG.

\- when a *timeAlignmentTimer* expires:

\- if the *timeAlignmentTimer* is associated with the pTAG:

\- flush all HARQ buffers for all serving cells;

\- notify RRC to release PUCCH/SPUCCH for all serving cells;

\- notify RRC to release SRS for all serving cells;

\- for NB-IoT, notify RRC to release all dedicated resources for SR;

\- clear any configured downlink assignments and uplink grants;

\- consider all running *timeAlignmentTimer*s as expired;

\- else if the *timeAlignmentTimer* is associated with an sTAG, then for
all Serving Cells belonging to this TAG*:*

\- flush all HARQ buffers;

\- notify RRC to release SRS;

\- notify RRC to release PUCCH/SPUCCH, if configured;

\- clear any configured downlink assignments and uplink grants.

\- upon indication from upper layers to start *timeAlignmentTimer,* if a
N~TA~ has been stored or maintained with the indicated TAG:

\- start or restart the *timeAlignmentTimer* associated with the
indicated TAG.

When the MAC entity stops uplink transmissions for an SCell due to the
fact that the maximum uplink transmission timing difference (as
described in clause 7.9.2 of TS 36.133 \[9\]) or the maximum uplink
transmission timing difference the UE can handle between TAGs of any MAC
entity of the UE is exceeded, the MAC entity considers the
*timeAlignmentTimer* associated with the SCell as expired.

The MAC entity shall not perform any uplink transmission on a Serving
Cell, except the Random Access Preamble transmission and transmissions
corresponding to a PUR-RNTI, when the *timeAlignmentTimer* associated
with the TAG to which this Serving Cell belongs is not running.
Furthermore, when the *timeAlignmentTimer* associated with the pTAG is
not running, the MAC entity shall not perform any uplink transmission on
any Serving Cell except the Random Access Preamble transmission on the
SpCell.

The MAC entity shall not perform any sidelink transmission which is
performed based on UL timing of the corresponding serving cell and any
associated SCI transmissions when the corresponding *timeAlignmentTimer*
is not running.

NOTE: A MAC entity stores or maintains N~TA~ upon expiry of associated
*timeAlignmentTimer*, where N~TA~ is defined in TS 36.211 \[7\]. The MAC
entity applies a received Timing Advance Command MAC control element and
starts associated *timeAlignmentTimer* also when the
*timeAlignmentTimer* is not running.

5.3 DL-SCH data transfer
------------------------

### 5.3.1 DL Assignment reception

Downlink assignments transmitted on the PDCCH indicate if there is a
transmission on a DL-SCH for a particular MAC entity and provide the
relevant HARQ information.

When the MAC entity has a C-RNTI, Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI,
PUR-RNTI or Temporary C-RNTI, the MAC entity shall for each TTI during
which it monitors PDCCH and for each Serving Cell:

\- if a downlink assignment for this TTI and this Serving Cell has been
received on the PDCCH for the MAC entity\'s C-RNTI, PUR-RNTI, or
Temporary C‑RNTI:

\- if this is the first downlink assignment for this Temporary C-RNTI;
or

\- if this is the first downlink assignment corresponding to uplink
transmission using previous preconfigured uplink grant for this
PUR-RNTI:

\- consider the NDI to have been toggled.

\- if the downlink assignment is for the MAC entity\'s C-RNTI and if the
previous downlink assignment indicated to the HARQ entity of the same
HARQ process was either a downlink assignment received for the MAC
entity\'s Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI or a configured downlink
assignment:

\- consider the NDI to have been toggled regardless of the value of the
NDI.

\- indicate the presence of a downlink assignment and deliver the
associated HARQ information to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else, if a downlink assignment for this TTI has been received for
this Serving Cell on the PDCCH for the MAC entity\'s Semi-Persistent
Scheduling C-RNTI:

\- if the NDI in the received HARQ information is 1:

\- consider the NDI not to have been toggled;

\- indicate the presence of a downlink assignment and deliver the
associated HARQ information to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else, if the NDI in the received HARQ information is 0:

\- if PDCCH contents indicate SPS release:

\- clear the configured downlink assignment (if any);

\- if the *timeAlignmentTimer*, associated with the TAG containing the
serving cell on which the acknowledgement for the downlink SPS release
is to be transmitted, is running:

\- indicate a positive acknowledgement for the downlink SPS release to
the physical layer.

\- else:

\- store the downlink assignment and the associated HARQ information as
configured downlink assignment;

\- initialise (if not active) or re-initialise (if already active) the
configured downlink assignment to start in this TTI, or in TTI according
to N=0 in clause 5.10.1 for short TTI, and to recur according to rules
in clause 5.10.1;

\- set the HARQ Process ID to the HARQ Process ID associated with this
TTI;

\- consider the NDI bit to have been toggled;

\- indicate the presence of a configured downlink assignment and deliver
the stored HARQ information to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else, if a downlink assignment for this TTI has been configured for
this Serving Cell and there is no measurement gap in this TTI and there
is no Sidelink Discovery Gap for Reception in this TTI; and

\- if this TTI is not an MBSFN subframe or the MAC entity is configured
with transmission mode *tm9* or *tm10*:

\- instruct the physical layer to receive, in this TTI, transport block
on the DL-SCH according to the configured downlink assignment and to
deliver it to the HARQ entity;

\- set the HARQ Process ID to the HARQ Process ID associated with this
TTI;

\- consider the NDI bit to have been toggled;

\- indicate the presence of a configured downlink assignment and deliver
the stored HARQ information to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- if the MAC entity is configured with *rach-Skip* or *rach-SkipSCG*
and a UE Contention Resolution Identity MAC control element for this TTI
has been received on the PDSCH indicated by the PDCCH of the SpCell
addressed to the C-RNTI:

\- indicate to upper layer the successful reception of a PDCCH
transmission addressed to the C-RNTI.

For configured downlink assignments, the HARQ Process ID associated with
this TTI is derived from the following equation:

\- if the TTI is a subframe TTI:

\- HARQ Process ID =
\[floor(CURRENT\_TTI/*semiPersistSchedIntervalDL*)\] modulo
*numberOfConfSPS-Processes,*

where CURRENT\_TTI=\[(SFN \* 10) + subframe number\].

\- else:

\- HARQ Process ID =
\[floor(C*URRENT\_TTI/semiPersistSchedIntervalDL-sTTI*)\] modulo
*numberOfConfSPS-Processes-sTTI*,

> where CURRENT\_TTI = \[(SFN \* 10 \* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe) +
> subframe number \* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + sTTI\_number\]. Refer
> to 5.10.1 for sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe and sTTI\_number.

For BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, CURRENT\_TTI refers to the TTI
where first transmission of repetition bundle takes place.

When the MAC entity needs to read BCCH or BR-BCCH, the MAC entity may,
based on the scheduling information from RRC:

\- if the UE is a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- the redundancy version of the received downlink assignment for this
TTI is determined by *RV~K~* = ceiling(3/2\**k*) modulo 4, where *k*
depends on the type of system information message.

\- for *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR*

\- if number of repetitions for PDSCH carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* is 4, *k* = floor(SFN/2) modulo 4,
where SFN is the system frame number.

\- else if number of repetitions for PDSCH carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* is 8, *k* = SFN modulo 4, where SFN is
the system frame number.

\- else if number of repetitions for PDSCH carrying
*SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* is 16, *k* = (SFN\*10+i) modulo 4,
where SFN is the system frame number, and *i* denotes the subframe
within the SFN.

NOTE: the set of subframes for *SystemInformationBlockType1-BR* when
number of repetitions for PDSCH is 16 are given by Table 6.4.1-2 in
TS 36.211 \[7\].

\- for *SystemInformation-BR* messages, *k*=*i* modulo 4, *i* =0,1,...,
*n~s~^w^*--1, where *i* denotes the subframe number within the SI window
*n~s~^w^*;

\- indicate a downlink assignment and redundancy version for the
dedicated broadcast HARQ process to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else if a downlink assignment for this TTI has been received on the
PDCCH for the SI-RNTI, except for NB-IoT;

\- if the redundancy version is not defined in the PDCCH format:

\- the redundancy version of the received downlink assignment for this
TTI is determined by *RV~K~* = ceiling(3/2\**k*) modulo 4, where *k*
depends on the type of system information message: for
*SystemInformationBlockType1* message, *k* = (SFN/2) modulo 4, where SFN
is the system frame number; for *SystemInformation* messages, *k*=*i*
modulo 4, *i* =0,1,..., *n~s~^w^*--1, where *i* denotes the subframe
number within the SI window *n~s~^w^*;

\- indicate a downlink assignment and redundancy version for the
dedicated broadcast HARQ process to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

When the MAC entity has SC-RNTI and/or G-RNTI, the MAC entity shall for
each TTI during which it monitors PDCCH for SC-RNTI as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\] for UEs other than NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced
coverage and in clause 5.7a for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced
coverage and for G-RNTI as specified in clause 5.7a and for each Serving
Cell and cell that may be additionally configured as a Serving Cell
according to the UE capabilities:

\- if a downlink assignment for this TTI and this Serving Cell has been
received on the PDCCH for the MAC entity\'s SC-RNTI or G-RNTI:

\- attempt to decode the received data.

\- if the data which the MAC entity attempted to decode was successfully
decoded for this TB:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to the disassembly and demultiplexing
entity.

### 5.3.2 HARQ operation

#### 5.3.2.1 HARQ Entity

There is one HARQ entity at the MAC entity for each Serving Cell which
maintains a number of parallel HARQ processes. Each HARQ process is
associated with a HARQ process identifier. The HARQ entity directs HARQ
information and associated TBs received on the DL-SCH to the
corresponding HARQ processes (see clause 5.3.2.2).

The number of DL HARQ processes per HARQ entity is specified in
TS 36.213 \[2\], clause 7.

When the physical layer is configured for downlink spatial multiplexing,
as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], one or two TBs are expected per TTI and
they are associated with the same HARQ process. Otherwise, one TB is
expected per TTI.

For NB-IoT UEs or BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, the parameter
DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER provides the number of transmissions repeated in
a bundle. For each bundle, DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER is set to a value
provided by lower layers. Within a bundle, after the initial
(re)transmission, DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER-1 HARQ retransmissions follow.
The HARQ feedback is transmitted for the bundle and a downlink
assignment corresponding to a new transmission or a retransmission of
the bundle is received after the last repetition of the bundle. A
retransmission of a bundle is also a bundle.

If the MAC entity is configured with *blindSlotSubslotPDSCH-Repetitions*
or *blindSubframePDSCH-Repetitions* on a serving cell (TS 36.331 \[8\]),
the parameter DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER provides the number of
transmissions repeated in a bundle for a downlink assignment received on
that serving cell. For each bundle, DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER and the
redundancy version for each transmission within a bundle are set to
values provided by lower layers. Within a bundle, after the initial
(re-)transmission, DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER-1 HARQ retransmissions follow.
The HARQ feedback is sent only one time for the bundle and after the
last transmission of the bundle.

In addition to the broadcast HARQ process, NB-IoT has one or two DL HARQ
processes.

The MAC entity shall:

\- If a downlink assignment has been indicated for this TTI; or

\- If this TTI is for a retransmission within a bundle:

\- allocate the TB(s) received from the physical layer and the
associated HARQ information to the HARQ process indicated by the
associated HARQ information.

\- If a downlink assignment has been indicated for the broadcast HARQ
process:

\- allocate the received TB to the broadcast HARQ process.

NOTE: In case of BCCH and BR-BCCH a dedicated broadcast HARQ process is
used.

#### 5.3.2.2 HARQ process

For each TTI where a transmission takes place for the HARQ process, one
or two (in case of downlink spatial multiplexing) TBs and the associated
HARQ information are received from the HARQ entity.

For each received TB and associated HARQ information, the HARQ process
shall:

\- if the NDI, when provided, has been toggled compared to the value of
the previous received transmission corresponding to this TB; or

\- if the HARQ process is equal to the broadcast process and if this is
the first received transmission for the TB according to the system
information schedule indicated by RRC; or

\- if this is the very first received transmission for this TB (i.e.
there is no previous NDI for this TB):

\- consider this transmission to be a new transmission.

\- else:

\- consider this transmission to be a retransmission.

The MAC entity then shall:

\- if this is a new transmission:

\- attempt to decode the received data.

\- else if this is a retransmission:

\- if the data for this TB has not yet been successfully decoded:

\- combine the received data with the data currently in the soft buffer
for this TB and attempt to decode the combined data.

\- if the data which the MAC entity attempted to decode was successfully
decoded for this TB; or

\- if the data for this TB was successfully decoded before:

\- if the HARQ process is equal to the broadcast process:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to upper layers.

\- else if this is the first successful decoding of the data for this
TB:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to the disassembly and demultiplexing
entity.

\- generate a positive acknowledgement (ACK) of the data in this TB.

\- else:

\- replace the data in the soft buffer for this TB with the data which
the MAC entity attempted to decode.

\- generate a negative acknowledgement (NACK) of the data in this TB.

\- if the HARQ process is associated with a transmission indicated with
a Temporary C-RNTI and the Contention Resolution is not yet successful
(see clause 5.1.5); or

\- if the HARQ process is equal to the broadcast process; or

\- if the HARQ process is not associated with a transmission indicated
with a PUR-RNTI and the *timeAlignmentTimer*, associated with the TAG
containing the serving cell on which the HARQ feedback is to be
transmitted, is stopped or expired:

\- do not indicate the generated positive or negative acknowledgement to
the physical layer.

\- else:

\- indicate the generated positive or negative acknowledgement for this
TB to the physical layer.

The MAC entity shall ignore NDI received in all downlink assignments on
PDCCH for its Temporary C-RNTI when determining if NDI on PDCCH for its
C-RNTI has been toggled compared to the value in the previous
transmission.

NOTE 1: When the MAC entity is configured with more than one serving
cell, UE behaviors for storing data to the soft buffer is specified in
TS 36.213 \[2\].

NOTE 2: If the MAC entity receives a retransmission with a TB size
different from the last valid TB size signalled for this TB, the UE
behavior is left up to UE implementation.

### 5.3.3 Disassembly and demultiplexing

The MAC entity shall disassemble and demultiplex a MAC PDU as defined in
clause 6.1.2.

5.4 UL-SCH data transfer
------------------------

### 5.4.1 UL Grant reception

In order to transmit on the UL-SCH the MAC entity must have a valid
uplink grant (except for non-adaptive HARQ retransmissions) which it may
receive dynamically on the PDCCH or in a Random Access Response or which
may be configured semi-persistently or preallocated by RRC or provided
by RRC for transmission using PUR (see clause 5.4.7). To perform
requested transmissions, the MAC layer receives HARQ information from
lower layers. When the physical layer is configured for uplink spatial
multiplexing, the MAC layer can receive up to two grants (one per HARQ
process) for the same TTI from lower layers.

If the MAC entity has a C-RNTI, a Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI, a
UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling V-RNTI, a AUL C-RNTI, or a Temporary
C-RNTI, the MAC entity shall for each TTI and for each Serving Cell
belonging to a TAG that has a running *timeAlignmentTimer* and for each
grant received for this TTI and for each SPS configuration that is
indicated by the PDCCH addressed to UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling
V-RNTI; or if the MAC entity has Preconfigured Uplink Resource RNTI, the
MAC entity shall for each TTI and for each grant received for this TTI:

\- if an uplink grant for this TTI and this Serving Cell has been
received on the PDCCH for the MAC entity\'s C-RNTI, Preconfigured Uplink
Resource RNTI or Temporary C-RNTI; or

\- if an uplink grant for this TTI has been received in a Random Access
Response:

\- if the uplink grant is for MAC entity\'s C-RNTI and if the previous
uplink grant delivered to the HARQ entity for the same HARQ process was
either an uplink grant received for the MAC entity\'s Semi-Persistent
Scheduling C-RNTI, for the MAC entity\'s UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling
V-RNTI, or a configured uplink grant for which the UL HARQ operation was
not autonomous:

\- consider the NDI to have been toggled for the corresponding HARQ
process regardless of the value of the NDI.

\- deliver the uplink grant and the associated HARQ information to the
HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else, if an uplink grant for this TTI has been received for this
Serving Cell on the PDCCH for the MAC entity\'s Semi-Persistent
Scheduling C-RNTI or for the MAC entity\'s UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling
V-RNTI; or if an uplink grant for this TTI has been received for this
Serving Cell on the PDCCH for the MAC entity\'s AUL C-RNTI:

\- if the NDI in the received HARQ information is 1:

\- consider the NDI for the corresponding HARQ process not to have been
toggled;

\- deliver the uplink grant and the associated HARQ information to the
HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else if the NDI in the received HARQ information is 0:

\- if PDCCH contents indicate AUL release:

\- trigger an AUL confirmation;

\- if an uplink grant for this TTI has been configured:

\- consider the NDI bit for the corresponding HARQ process to have been
toggled;

\- deliver the configured uplink grant and the associated HARQ
information to the HARQ entity for this TTI;

\- else if PDCCH contents indicate AUL activation:

\- trigger an AUL confirmation;

\- store the uplink grant and the associated HARQ information as
configured uplink grant;

\- initialise (if not active) or re-initialise (if already active) the
configured uplink grant to start in this TTI and to recur according to
rules in clause 5.23;

\- consider the NDI bit for the corresponding HARQ process to have been
toggled;

\- deliver the configured uplink grant and the associated HARQ
information to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else if PDCCH contents indicate SPS release:

\- if the MAC entity is configured with *skipUplinkTxSPS*:

\- trigger an SPS confirmation;

\- if an uplink grant for this TTI has been configured:

\- consider the NDI bit for the corresponding HARQ process to have been
toggled;

\- deliver the configured uplink grant and the associated HARQ
information to the HARQ entity for this TTI;

\- else:

\- clear the corresponding configured uplink grant (if any).

\- else:

\- if the MAC entity is configured with *skipUplinkTxSPS*:

\- trigger an SPS confirmation;

\- store the uplink grant and the associated HARQ information as
configured uplink grant;

\- initialise (if not active) or re-initialise (if already active) the
configured uplink grant to start in this TTI, or in TTI according to N=0
in clause 5.10.2 for short TTI, and to recur according to rules in
clause 5.10.2;

\- if UL HARQ operation is asynchronous, set the HARQ Process ID to the
HARQ Process ID associated with this TTI;

\- consider the NDI bit for the corresponding HARQ process to have been
toggled;

\- deliver the configured uplink grant and the associated HARQ
information to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else, if an uplink grant for this TTI has been configured for the
Serving Cell and if UL HARQ operation is autonomous for the
corresponding HARQ process:

\- if the HARQ\_FEEDBACK is set to ACK for the corresponding HARQ
process or if there is no uplink grant previously delivered to the HARQ
entity for the same HARQ process:

\- consider the NDI bit for the corresponding HARQ process to have been
toggled.

\- if the *aul-RetransmissionTimer* is not running:

\- if there is no uplink grant previously delivered to the HARQ entity
for the same HARQ process; or

\- if the previous uplink grant delivered to the HARQ entity for the
same HARQ process was not an uplink grant received for the MAC entity\'s
C-RNTI; or

\- if the HARQ\_FEEDBACK is set to ACK for the corresponding HARQ
process:

\- deliver the configured uplink grant, and the associated HARQ
information to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

\- else:

\- if this Serving Cell is the SpCell and an uplink grant for this TTI
has been preallocated for the SpCell; or

\- except for preconfigured uplink grant for PUR, if an uplink grant for
this TTI has been configured for this Serving Cell:

\- if UL HARQ operation is asynchronous, set the HARQ Process ID to the
HARQ Process ID associated with this TTI;

\- consider the NDI bit for the corresponding HARQ process to have been
toggled;

\- deliver the configured or preallocated uplink grant, and the
associated HARQ information to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

NOTE 1: The period of configured uplink grants is expressed in TTIs.

NOTE 2: If the MAC entity receives both a grant in a Random Access
Response and a grant for its C-RNTI or Semi persistent scheduling C-RNTI
requiring transmissions on the SpCell in the same UL subframe, the MAC
entity may choose to continue with either the grant for its RA-RNTI or
the grant for its C-RNTI or Semi persistent scheduling C-RNTI.

NOTE 3: When a configured uplink grant is indicated during a measurement
gap and indicates an UL-SCH transmission during a measurement gap, the
MAC entity processes the grant but does not transmit on UL-SCH. When a
configured uplink grant is indicated during a Sidelink Discovery gap for
reception and indicates an UL-SCH transmission during a Sidelink
Discovery gap for transmission with a SL-DCH transmission, the MAC
entity processes the grant but does not transmit on UL-SCH. When a
configured uplink grant indicates an UL-SCH transmission during a V2X
sidelink communication transmission and transmission of V2X sidelink
communication is prioritized as described in clause 5.14.1.2.2, the MAC
entity processes the grant but does not transmit on UL-SCH.

NOTE 4: The NDI transmitted in the PDCCH for the MAC entity\'s AUL
C-RNTI is set to \'0\' (TS 36.212 \[5\]).

Except for NB-IoT, for configured uplink grants without
*harq-ProcID-offset*, if UL HARQ operation is not autonomous, the HARQ
Process ID associated with this TTI is derived from the following
equation for asynchronous UL HARQ operation:

\- if the TTI is a subframe TTI:

\- HARQ Process ID = \[floor(CURRENT\_TTI/semiPersistSchedIntervalUL)\]
modulo *numberOfConfUlSPS-Processes,*

> where CURRENT\_TTI=\[(SFN \* 10) + subframe number\] and it refers to
> the subframe where the first transmission of a bundle takes place.

\- else:

\- HARQ Process ID =
\[floor(CURRENT\_TTI/*semiPersistSchedIntervalUL-sTTI*)\] modulo
*numberOfConfUlSPS-Processes-sTTI*,

> where CURRENT\_TTI = \[(SFN \* 10 \* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe) +
> subframe number \* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + sTTI\_number\] and it
> refers to the short TTI occasion where the first transmission of a
> bundle takes place. Refer to 5.10.2 for sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe
> and sTTI\_number.

For preallocated uplink grants the HARQ Process ID associated with this
TTI is derived from the following equation for asynchronous UL HARQ
operation:

HARQ Process ID = \[floor(CURRENT\_TTI/*ul-SchedInterval*)\] modulo
*numberOfConfUL-Processes,*

where CURRENT\_TTI=subframe number and it refers to the subframe where
the first transmission of a bundle takes place.

For configured uplink grants, if UL HARQ operation is autonomous, the
HARQ Process ID associated with this TTI for transmission on this
Serving Cell is selected by the UE implementation from the HARQ process
IDs that are configured for autonomous UL HARQ operation by upper layers
in *aul-HARQ-Processes* (TS 36.331 \[8\]).

For configured uplink grants with *harq-ProcID-offset*, the HARQ Process
ID associated with this TTI is derived from the following equation for
asynchronous UL HARQ operation:

\- if the TTI is a subframe TTI:

\- HARQ Process ID =
\[floor(CURRENT\_TTI/*semiPersistSchedIntervalUL*)\] modulo
*numberOfConfUlSPS-Processes* + *harq-ProcID-offset*,

> where CURRENT\_TTI = \[(SFN \* 10) + subframe number\] and it refers
> to the subframe where the first transmission of a bundle takes place.

\- else:

\- HARQ Process ID =
\[floor(CURRENT\_TTI/*semiPersistSchedIntervalUL-sTTI*)\] modulo
*numberOfConfUlSPS-Processes-sTTI* + harq-ProcID-offset,

where CURRENT\_TTI = \[(SFN \* 10 \* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe) +
subframe number \* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + sTTI\_number\] and it
refers to the short TTI occasion where the first transmission of a
bundle takes place. Refer to 5.10.2 for sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe and
sTTI\_number. For NB-IoT, for configured uplink grants for BSR, the HARQ
Process ID is set to 0.

If the MAC entity is configured with Short Processing Time or short TTI
and if current\_TTI is a subframe TTI, the HARQ Process ID associated
with this TTI is derived from the following equation for synchronous UL
HARQ operation:

HARQ Process ID = \[SFN \* number\_of\_UL\_PUSCH\_SFs\_per\_radio\_frame
+ index\_of\_UL\_PUSCH\_SF\] modulo number\_of\_UL\_HARQ\_processes.

where number\_of\_UL\_PUSCH\_SFs\_per\_radio\_frame is the number of
subframes that can be used for PUSCH (UL PUSCH subframe) per radio
frame:

\- For FDD serving cells and serving cells operating according to Frame
structure Type 3, all 10 subframes in a radio frame represent UL PUSCH
subframes;

\- For TDD serving cells, all uplink subframes of the TDD UL/DL
configuration indicated by *tdd-Config*, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\]
of the cell represent UL PUSCH subframes and additionally the subframes
including UpPTS if the cell is configured with *symPUSCH-UpPts-r14*;

and index\_of\_UL\_PUSCH\_SF is the index of a subframe that can be used
for PUSCH within the radio frame, and number\_of\_UL\_HARQ\_processes is
the number of parallel HARQ processes per HARQ entity for subframe TTI
as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], clause 8.

### 5.4.2 HARQ operation

#### 5.4.2.1 HARQ entity

There is one HARQ entity at the MAC entity for each Serving Cell with
configured uplink, which maintains a number of parallel HARQ processes
allowing transmissions to take place continuously while waiting for the
HARQ feedback on the successful or unsuccessful reception of previous
transmissions.

The number of parallel HARQ processes per HARQ entity is specified in
TS 36.213 \[2\], clause 8. NB-IoT has one or two UL HARQ processes.

When the physical layer is configured for uplink spatial multiplexing,
as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], there are two HARQ processes associated
with a given TTI. Otherwise there is one HARQ process associated with a
given TTI.

At a given TTI, if an uplink grant is indicated for the TTI, the HARQ
entity identifies the HARQ process(es) for which a transmission should
take place. It also routes the received HARQ feedback (ACK/NACK
information), MCS and resource, relayed by the physical layer, to the
appropriate HARQ process(es).

In asynchronous HARQ operation, a HARQ process is associated with a TTI
based on the received UL grant except for UL grant in RAR. Except for
NB-IoT UE configured with a single HARQ process, each asynchronous HARQ
process is associated with a HARQ process identifier. For UL
transmission with UL grant in RAR and for transmission using PUR, HARQ
process identifier 0 is used. HARQ feedback is not applicable for
asynchronous UL HARQ except if *mpdcch-UL-HARQ-ACK-FeedbackConfig* is
configured.

In autonomous HARQ operation, HARQ feedback is applicable.

When TTI bundling is configured, the parameter TTI\_BUNDLE\_SIZE
provides the number of TTIs of a TTI bundle. TTI bundling operation
relies on the HARQ entity for invoking the same HARQ process for each
transmission that is part of the same bundle. Within a bundle HARQ
retransmissions are non-adaptive and triggered without waiting for
feedback from previous transmissions according to TTI\_BUNDLE\_SIZE. The
HARQ feedback of a bundle is only received for the last TTI of the
bundle (i.e the TTI corresponding to TTI\_BUNDLE\_SIZE), regardless of
whether a transmission in that TTI takes place or not (e.g. when a
measurement gap occurs). A retransmission of a TTI bundle is also a TTI
bundle. TTI bundling is not supported when the MAC entity is configured
with one or more SCells with configured uplink.

Uplink HARQ operation is asynchronous for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in
enhanced coverage except for the repetitions within a bundle, in serving
cells configured with *pusch-EnhancementsConfig*, serving cells
operating according to Frame Structure Type 3, for HARQ processes
scheduled using short TTI, for HARQ processes scheduled using Short
Processing Time, and for HARQ processes associated with an SPS
configuration with *totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-STTI-UL-Repetitions* or
*totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-UL-Repetitions* except for the repetitions within
a bundle.

For serving cells configured with *pusch-EnhancementsConfig*, NB-IoT
UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, the parameter
UL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER provides the number of transmission repetitions
within a bundle. For each bundle, UL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER is set to a
value provided by lower layers. Bundling operation relies on the HARQ
entity for invoking the same HARQ process for each transmission that is
part of the same bundle. Within a bundle HARQ retransmissions are
non-adaptive and are triggered without waiting for feedback from
previous transmissions according to UL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER. An uplink
grant corresponding to a new transmission of the bundle is only received
after the last repetiton of the bundle if
*mpdcch-UL-HARQ-ACK-FeedbackConfig* is not configured. An uplink grant
corresponding to a retransmission of the bundle is only received after
the last repetition of the bundle. For UEs configured with
*mpdcch-UL-HARQ-ACK-FeedbackConfig*, repetitions within a bundle are
stopped if an UL HARQ-ACK feedback or an uplink grant corresponding to a
new transmission of the bundle is received on PDCCH during the bundle
transmission. A retransmission of a bundle is also a bundle.

For a SPS configuration with *totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-STTI-UL-Repetitions*
or *totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-UL-Repetitions* (TS 36.331 \[8\]), the
parameter *totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-STTI-UL-Repetitions* or
*totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-UL-Repetitions* provides the number of
transmission repetitions within a configured grant bundle. Bundling
operation relies on the HARQ entity invoking the same HARQ process for
each transmission that is part of the same bundle. Within a bundle HARQ
retransmissions are non-adaptive and are triggered without waiting for
feedback from previous transmissions.

TTI bundling is not supported for RN communication with the E-UTRAN in
combination with an RN subframe configuration.

For transmission of Msg3 during Random Access (see clause 5.1.5) TTI
bundling does not apply. For UEs configured with
*pusch-EnhancementsConfig* performing contention free Random Access,
NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, uplink repetition
bundling is used for transmission of Msg3.

For each TTI, the HARQ entity shall:

\- identify the HARQ process(es) associated with this TTI, and for each
identified HARQ process:

\- if an uplink grant has been indicated for this process and this TTI:

\- if the received grant was addressed neither to a Temporary C-RNTI nor
to a PUR-RNTI on PDCCH and if the NDI provided in the associated HARQ
information has been toggled compared to the value in the previous
transmission of this HARQ process; or

\- if the uplink grant was received on PDCCH for the C-RNTI and the HARQ
buffer of the identified process is empty; or

\- if the uplink grant was provided by RRC for transmission using PUR;
or

\- if the uplink grant was received in a Random Access Response:

\- if there is a MAC PDU in the Msg3 buffer and the uplink grant was
received in a Random Access Response:

\- if the MAC PDU in the Msg3 buffer contains the Data Volume and Power
Headroom Report MAC control element:

\- the MAC entity shall update the Data Volume and Power Headroom Report
MAC control element in the MAC PDU in the Msg3 buffer.

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE and *cqi-Reporting* is configured by upper
layers:

\- the MAC entity shall update the MAC PDU in the Msg3 buffer in
accordance with the DL channel quality measurement result.

\- obtain the MAC PDU to transmit from the Msg3 buffer.

\- else if the uplink grant is a configured grant with
*totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-STTI-UL-Repetitions* or
*totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-UL-Repetitions* and if a retransmission within a
bundle is triggered for another configured grant with
*totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-STTI-UL-Repetitions* or
*totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-UL-Repetitions* in this TTI:

\- ignore the uplink grant.

\- else if the MAC entity is configured with
*semiPersistSchedIntervalUL* shorter than 10 subframes and if the uplink
grant is a configured grant, and if the HARQ buffer of the identified
HARQ process is not empty, and if HARQ\_FEEDBACK of the identified HARQ
process is NACK; or if the MAC entity is configured with
*ul-SchedInterval* shorter than 10 subframes and if the uplink grant is
a preallocated uplink grant, and if the HARQ buffer of the identified
HARQ process is not empty, and if HARQ\_FEEDBACK of the identified HARQ
process is NACK:

\- instruct the identified HARQ process to generate a non-adaptive
retransmission.

\- else:

\- if the UL HARQ operation is synchronous, and the uplink grant is a
preallocated uplink grant, and a MAC PDU has previously been obtained
from the \"Multiplexing and assembly\" entity during this handover
attempt:

\- ignore the uplink grant;

\- else:

\- obtain the MAC PDU to transmit from the \"Multiplexing and assembly\"
entity, if any;

\- if a MAC PDU to transmit has been obtained:

\- deliver the MAC PDU and the uplink grant and the HARQ information to
the identified HARQ process;

\- instruct the identified HARQ process to trigger a new transmission.

\- else:

\- flush the HARQ buffer of the identified HARQ process.

\- else:

\- if the MAC entity is configured with *skipUplinkTxSPS* and if the
uplink grant received on PDCCH was addressed to the Semi-Persistent
Scheduling C-RNTI or to the UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling V-RNTI and if
the HARQ buffer of the identified process is empty; or

\- if UL HARQ operation is autonomous for the identified HARQ process
and if the uplink grant is a configured UL grant and if the HARQ buffer
of the identified process is empty; or

\- if the previous uplink grant delivered to the HARQ entity for the
same HARQ process was a configured uplink grant for which the UL HARQ
operation was autonomous, and if the corresponding UL grant size was
different from the UL grant size indicated by the uplink grant for this
TTI:

\- ignore the uplink grant;

\- else:

\- deliver the uplink grant and the HARQ information (redundancy
version) to the identified HARQ process;

\- if UL HARQ operation is autonomous for the identified HARQ process
and if the uplink grant is a configured UL grant:

\- instruct the identified HARQ process to generate a non adaptive
retransmission.

\- else:

\- instruct the identified HARQ process to generate an adaptive
retransmission.

\- else, if the HARQ buffer of this HARQ process is not empty:

\- instruct the identified HARQ process to generate a non-adaptive
retransmission;

\- if the non-adaptive retransmission collides with a transmission of
another HARQ process scheduled using Short Processing Time:

\- instruct the identified HARQ process to generate a positive
acknowledgement (ACK) of the data in the corresponding TB.

When determining if NDI has been toggled compared to the value in the
previous transmission the MAC entity shall ignore NDI received in all
uplink grants on PDCCH for its Temporary C-RNTI and PUR-RNTI.

#### 5.4.2.2 HARQ process

Each HARQ process is associated with a HARQ buffer.

For synchronous HARQ, each HARQ process shall maintain a state variable
CURRENT\_TX\_NB, which indicates the number of transmissions that have
taken place for the MAC PDU currently in the buffer, and a state
variable HARQ\_FEEDBACK, which indicates the HARQ feedback for the MAC
PDU currently in the buffer. When the HARQ process is established,
CURRENT\_TX\_NB shall be initialized to 0.

The sequence of redundancy versions is 0, 2, 3, 1. The variable
CURRENT\_IRV is an index into the sequence of redundancy versions. This
variable is up-dated modulo 4. For serving cells configured with
*pusch-EnhancementsConfig*, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage see
clause 8.6.1 in TS 36.213 \[2\] for the sequence of redundancy versions
and redundancy version determination. For NB-IoT UEs see clause 16.5.1.2
in TS 36.213 \[2\] for the sequence of redundancy versions and
redundancy version determination. For an SPS configuration with
*totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-STTI-UL-Repetitions* or
*totalNumberPUSCH-SPS-UL-Repetitions* (TS 36.331 \[8\]), the redundancy
version for each transmission within a bundle are determined by
*rv-SPS-STTI-UL-Repetitions* or *rv-SPS-UL-Repetitions* in the SPS
configuration (TS 36.331 \[8\]).

For NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage for
UL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER for Mode B operation, the same redundancy version
is used multiple times before cycling to the next redundancy version as
specified in clauses 16.5.1.2, 8.6.1 and 7.1.7.1 in TS 36.213 \[2\].

New transmissions are performed on the resource and with the MCS
indicated on PDCCH or Random Access Response. Adaptive retransmissions
are performed on the resource and, if provided, with the MCS indicated
on PDCCH. Non-adaptive retransmission is performed on the same resource
and with the same MCS as was used for the last made transmission
attempt.

For synchronous HARQ, the MAC entity is configured with a maximum number
of HARQ transmissions and a maximum number of Msg3 HARQ transmissions by
RRC: *maxHARQ-Tx* and *maxHARQ-Msg3Tx* respectively. For transmissions
on all HARQ processes and all logical channels except for transmission
of a MAC PDU stored in the Msg3 buffer, the maximum number of
transmissions shall be set to *maxHARQ-Tx*. For transmission of a MAC
PDU stored in the Msg3 buffer, the maximum number of transmissions shall
be set to *maxHARQ-Msg3Tx*.

For autonomous HARQ, each HARQ process shall maintain a state variable
HARQ\_FEEDBACK, which indicates the HARQ feedback for the MAC PDU
currently in the buffer, and a timer *aul-RetransmissionTimer* which
prohibits new transmission or retransmission for the same HARQ process
on the configured autonomous uplink when the timer is running.

When the HARQ feedback is received for this TB, the HARQ process shall:

\- set HARQ\_FEEDBACK to the received value;

\- if running, stop the *aul-RetransmissionTimer*.

When an uplink grant addressed to C-RNTI is received for this HARQ
process and if the UL HARQ operation is autonomous, the HARQ process
shall:

\- if running, stop the *aul-RetransmissionTimer*.

When PUSCH transmission is performed for this TB and if the uplink grant
is a configured grant for the MAC entity\'s AUL C-RNTI, the HARQ process
shall:

\- start or restart the *aul-RetransmissionTimer*.

If the HARQ entity requests a new transmission, the HARQ process shall:

\- if UL HARQ operation is synchronous:

\- set CURRENT\_TX\_NB to 0;

\- set HARQ\_FEEDBACK to NACK;

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to 0;

\- else:

\- if UL HARQ operation is autonomous asychronous:

\- set HARQ\_FEEDBACK to NACK.

\- if the uplink grant was addressed to the AUL C-RNTI:

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to 0.

\- else:

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to the index corresponding to the redundancy version
value provided in the HARQ information;

\- store the MAC PDU in the associated HARQ buffer;

\- store the uplink grant received from the HARQ entity;

\- generate a transmission as described below.

If the HARQ entity requests a retransmission, the HARQ process shall:

\- if UL HARQ operation is synchronous:

\- increment CURRENT\_TX\_NB by 1;

\- if the HARQ entity requests an adaptive retransmission:

\- store the uplink grant received from the HARQ entity;

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to the index corresponding to the redundancy version
value provided in the HARQ information;

\- if UL HARQ operation is synchronous; or

\- if UL HARQ operation is autonomous:

\- set HARQ\_FEEDBACK to NACK;

\- generate a transmission as described below.

\- else if the HARQ entity requests a non-adaptive retransmission:

\- if UL HARQ operation is asynchronous or HARQ\_FEEDBACK = NACK:

\- if both *skipUplinkTxSPS* and *fixedRV-NonAdaptive* are configured
and the uplink grant of the initial transmission of this HARQ process
was performed on a configured grant and UL HARQ operation is not
autonomous; or

\- if the uplink grant is a preallocated uplink grant:

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to 0;

\- else if UL HARQ operation is autonomous:

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to the index corresponding to the redundancy version
value selected by the UE implementation.

\- generate a transmission as described below.

NOTE 1: When receiving a HARQ ACK alone, the MAC entity keeps the data
in the HARQ buffer.

NOTE 2: When no UL-SCH transmission can be made due to the occurrence of
a measurement gap or a Sidelink Discovery Gap for Transmission, or
prioritization of V2X sidelink communication transmission described in
clause 5.14.1.2.2, no HARQ feedback can be received and a non-adaptive
retransmission follows.

NOTE 3: For asynchronous HARQ operation, UL retransmissions are
triggered only by adaptive retransmission grants, except for
retransmissions within a bundle.

To generate a transmission, the HARQ process shall:

\- if the MAC PDU was obtained from the Msg3 buffer; or

\- if Sidelink Discovery Gaps for Transmission are not configured by
upper layers, and there is no measurement gap at the time of the
transmission and, in case of retransmission, the retransmission does not
collide with a transmission for a MAC PDU obtained from the Msg3 buffer
in this TTI; or

\- if Sidelink Discovery Gaps for Transmission are configured by upper
layers, and there is no measurement gap at the time of the transmission
and, in case of retransmission, the retransmission does not collide with
a transmission for a MAC PDU obtained from the Msg3 buffer, and there is
no Sidelink Discovery Gap for Transmission in this TTI; or

\- if Sidelink Discovery Gaps for Transmission are configured by upper
layers, and there is no measurement gap at the time of the transmission
and, in case of retransmission, the retransmission does not collide with
a transmission for a MAC PDU obtained from the Msg3 buffer, and there is
a Sidelink Discovery Gap for Transmission, and there is no configured
grant for transmission on SL-DCH in this TTI:

\- if there is neither transmission of V2X sidelink communication on
SL-SCH nor transmission of NR sidelink communication in this TTI; or

\- if the transmission of the MAC PDU is prioritized over sidelink
transmission:

\- instruct the physical layer to generate a transmission according to
the stored uplink grant with the redundancy version corresponding to the
CURRENT\_IRV value;

\- increment CURRENT\_IRV by 1 if UL HARQ operation is not autonomous;

\- if UL HARQ operation is synchronous and there is a measurement gap or
Sidelink Discovery Gap for Reception at the time of the HARQ feedback
reception for this transmission and if the MAC PDU was not obtained from
the Msg3 buffer:

\- set HARQ\_FEEDBACK to ACK at the time of the HARQ feedback reception
for this transmission.

After performing above actions, if UL HARQ operation is synchronous the
HARQ process then shall:

\- if CURRENT\_TX\_NB = maximum number of transmissions -- 1:

\- flush the HARQ buffer;

The transmission of the MAC PDU is prioritized over sidelink
transmission or can be performed simultaneously with sidelink
transmission if one of the following conditions is met:

\- if there are both a configured grant for transmission of V2X sidelink
communication on SL-SCH in this TTI and a sidelink grant for
transmission of NR sidelink communication as described in clause
5.22.1.1 of TS 38.321 \[24\] at the time of the transmission, and
neither the transmissions of V2X sidelink communication is prioritized
as described in clause 5.14.1.2.2 nor the transmission of NR sidelink
communication is prioritized as described in clause 5.22.1.3.1a of TS
38.321 \[24\]; or

\- if there are both a configured grant for transmission of V2X sidelink
communication on SL-SCH in this TTI and a sidelink grant for
transmission of NR sidelink communication as described in clause
5.22.1.1 of TS 38.321 \[24\] at the time of the transmission, and the
MAC entity is able to perform this UL transmission simultaneously with
the transmissions of V2X sidelink communication and/or the transmission
of NR sidelink communication; or

\- if there is only configured grant(s) for transmission of V2X sidelink
communication on SL-SCH in this TTI, and either none of the
transmissions of V2X sidelink communication is prioritized or the MAC
entity is able to perform this UL transmission and the transmissions of
V2X sidelink communication simultaneously; or

\- if there is only a sidelink grant for transmission of NR sidelink
communication in this TTI as described in clause 5.22.1.1 of TS 38.321
\[24\], and either no transmission of NR sidelink communication is
prioritized as described in clause 5.22.1.3.1a of TS 38.321 \[24\] or
the MAC entity is able to perform this UL transmission simultaneously
with the transmission of NR sidelink communication; or

\- if there are both a configured grant for transmission of V2X sidelink
communication on SL-SCH in this TTI and a sidelink grant for
transmission of NR sidelink communication as described in clause
5.22.1.1 of TS 38.321 \[24\] at the time of the transmission, and either
only the transmissions of V2X sidelink communication is prioritized as
described in clause 5.14.1.2.2 or only the transmission of NR sidelink
communication is prioritized as described in clause 5.22.1.3.1a of TS
38.321 \[24\] and the MAC entity is able to perform this UL transmission
simultaneously with the prioritized transmission of V2X sidelink
communication or NR sidelink communication.

NOTE 4: Among the UL transmissions where the MAC entity is able to
perform all transmissions of V2X sidelink communication prioritized
simultaneously, if there are more than one UL transmission which the MAC
entity is not able to perform simultaneously, it is up to UE
implementation whether this UL transmission is performed.

NOTE 5: Among the UL transmissions that the MAC entity is able to
perform simultaneously with the transmission of NR sidelink
communication prioritized, if there are more than one UL transmission
which the MAC entity is not able to perform simultaneously, it is up to
UE implementation whether this UL transmission is performed.

NOTE 6: Among the UL transmissions where the MAC entity is able to
perform all transmissions of V2X sidelink communication prioritized
simultaneously with the transmission of NR sidelink communication
prioritized, if there are more than one UL transmission which the MAC
entity is not able to perform simultaneously, it is up to UE
implementation whether this UL transmission is performed.

NOTE 7: If there is a sidelink grant for transmission of NR sidelink
communication in this TTI as described in clause 5.22.1.1 of TS 38.321
\[24\] and the MAC entity is not able to perform this UL transmission
simultaneously with the transmission of NR sidelink communication, and
prioritization-related information is not available prior to the time of
the transmission due to processing time restriction, it is up to UE
implementation whether this UL transmission is performed.

### 5.4.3 Multiplexing and assembly

#### 5.4.3.1 Logical channel prioritization

The Logical Channel Prioritization procedure is applied when a new
transmission is performed.

RRC controls the scheduling of uplink data by signalling for each
logical channel: *priority* where an increasing *priority* value
indicates a lower priority level, *prioritisedBitRate* which sets the
Prioritized Bit Rate (PBR), *bucketSizeDuration* which sets the Bucket
Size Duration (BSD), and optionally *allowedTTI-Lengths* which sets the
allowed TTI lengths. For NB-IoT, *prioritisedBitRate*,
*bucketSizeDuration* and the corresponding steps of the Logical Channel
Prioritisation procedure (i.e., Step 1 and Step 2 below) are not
applicable.

The MAC entity shall maintain a variable Bj for each logical channel j.
Bj shall be initialized to zero when the related logical channel is
established, and incremented by the product PBR × TTI duration for each
TTI, where PBR is Prioritized Bit Rate of logical channel j. However,
the value of Bj can never exceed the bucket size and if the value of Bj
is larger than the bucket size of logical channel j, it shall be set to
the bucket size. The bucket size of a logical channel is equal to PBR ×
BSD, where PBR and BSD are configured by upper layers.

Before the successful completion of the contention based Random Access
procedure initiated for DAPS handover, the target MAC entity shall not
select the logical channel(s) corresponding to non-DAPS DRB(s) for the
uplink grant received in a Random Access Response. The source MAC entity
shall select only the logical channel(s) corresponding to DAPS DRB(s)
during DAPS handover.

The MAC entity shall perform the following Logical Channel
Prioritization procedure when a new transmission is performed on an UL
grant with a certain TTI length:

\- The MAC entity shall allocate resources to the logical channels that
are allowed to transmit using the TTI length of the grant, in the
following steps:

\- Step 1: All the allowed logical channels with Bj \> 0 are allocated
resources in a decreasing priority order. If the PBR of a logical
channel is set to \"infinity\", the MAC entity shall allocate resources
for all the data that is available for transmission on the logical
channel before meeting the PBR of the lower priority logical channel(s);

\- Step 2: the MAC entity shall decrement Bj by the total size of MAC
SDUs served to logical channel j in Step 1;

NOTE 1: The value of Bj can be negative.

\- Step 3: if any resources remain, all the allowed logical channels are
served in a strict decreasing priority order (regardless of the value of
Bj) until either the data for that logical channel or the UL grant is
exhausted, whichever comes first. Logical channels configured with equal
priority should be served equally.

\- The UE shall also follow the rules below during the scheduling
procedures above:

\- the UE should not segment an RLC SDU (or partially transmitted SDU or
retransmitted RLC PDU) if the whole SDU (or partially transmitted SDU or
retransmitted RLC PDU) fits into the remaining resources of the
associated MAC entity;

\- if the UE segments an RLC SDU from the logical channel, it shall
maximize the size of the segment to fill the grant of the associated MAC
entity as much as possible;

\- the UE should maximise the transmission of data.

\- if the MAC entity is given an UL grant size that is equal to or
larger than 4 bytes while having data available for transmission, the
MAC entity shall not transmit only padding BSR and/or padding (unless
the UL grant size is less than 7 bytes and an AMD PDU segment needs to
be transmitted);

\- for transmissions on serving cells operating according to Frame
Structure Type 3, the MAC entity shall only consider logical channels
for which *laa-UL-Allowed* has been configured;

\- if a logical channel has been configured with *lch-CellRestriction*
and if PDCP duplication within the same MAC entity (i.e. CA duplication)
is activated, for this logical channel the MAC entity shall consider the
cells indicated by *lch-CellRestriction* to be restricted for
transmission.

\- for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, if
*edt-SmallTBS-Enabled* is set to *TRUE* for the corresponding PRACH
resource, the UE shall choose a TB size among the set of possible TB
sizes as described in clauses 8.6.2 and 16.3.3 of TS 36.213 \[2\]

The MAC entity shall not transmit data for a logical channel
corresponding to a radio bearer that is suspended (the conditions for
when a radio bearer is considered suspended are defined in
TS 36.331 \[8\]).

If the MAC PDU includes only the MAC CE for padding BSR or periodic BSR
with zero MAC SDUs and there is no aperiodic CSI requested for this TTI,
as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], the MAC entity shall not generate a MAC
PDU for the HARQ entity in the following cases:

\- in case the MAC entity is configured with *skipUplinkTxDynamic* and
the grant indicated to the HARQ entity was addressed to a C-RNTI; or

\- in case the MAC entity is configured with *skipUplinkTxSPS* and the
grant indicated to the HARQ entity is a configured uplink grant
activated by the MAC entity\'s Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI or by
the MAC entity\'s UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling V-RNTI; or

\- in case the grant indicated to the HARQ entity is a configured uplink
grant activated by the MAC entity\'s AUL C-RNTI; or

\- in case the grant indicated to the HARQ entity is a preconfigured
uplink grant.

NOTE 1a: If at least one MAC PDU is to be generated for the HARQ entity
for this TTI, the MAC entity generates MAC PDUs corresponding to all UL
grants indicated to the HARQ entity for this TTI.

For the Logical Channel Prioritization procedure, the MAC entity shall
take into account the following relative priority in decreasing order:

\- MAC control element for C-RNTI or data from UL-CCCH;

\- MAC control element for DPR;

\- MAC control element for SPS confirmation;

\- MAC control element for AUL confirmation;

\- MAC control element for BSR, with exception of BSR included for
padding;

\- MAC control element for PHR, Extended PHR, or Dual Connectivity PHR;

\- MAC control element for Sidelink BSR, with exception of Sidelink BSR
included for padding;

\- MAC control element for DCQR and AS RAI, with exception of when DCQR
is to be included in Msg3;

\- data from any Logical Channel, except data from UL-CCCH;

\- MAC control element for DCQR and AS RAI, when DCQR is to be included
in Msg3;

\- MAC control element for Recommended bit rate query;

\- MAC control element for BSR included for padding;

\- MAC control element for Sidelink BSR included for padding.

When AS RAI has been triggered, DCQR and AS RAI MAC control element
shall have higher priority than data from any Logical Channel, except
data from UL-CCCH, only if after logical channel prioritization
including AS RAI in the resulting MAC PDU does not require segmenting
RLC SDU. Otherwise data from any Logical Channel shall have higher
priority than DCQR and AS RAI MAC control element.

NOTE 2: When the MAC entity is requested to transmit multiple MAC PDUs
in one TTI, steps 1 to 3 and the associated rules may be applied either
to each grant independently or to the sum of the capacities of the
grants. Also the order in which the grants are processed is left up to
UE implementation. It is up to the UE implementation to decide in which
MAC PDU a MAC control element is included when MAC entity is requested
to transmit multiple MAC PDUs in one TTI. When the UE is requested to
generate MAC PDU(s) in two MAC entities in one TTI, it is up to UE
implementation in which order the grants are processed.

#### 5.4.3.2 Multiplexing of MAC Control Elements and MAC SDUs

The MAC entity shall multiplex MAC control elements and MAC SDUs in a
MAC PDU according to clauses 5.4.3.1 and 6.1.2.

### 5.4.4 Scheduling Request

The Scheduling Request (SR) is used for requesting UL-SCH resources for
new transmission.

When an SR is triggered, it shall be considered as pending until it is
cancelled. All pending SR(s) shall be cancelled and *sr-ProhibitTimer*
and *ssr-ProhibitTimer* shall be stopped when a MAC PDU is assembled and
this PDU includes a BSR which contains buffer status up to (and
including) the last event that triggered a BSR (see clause 5.4.5), or,
if all pending SR(s) are triggered by Sidelink BSR, when a MAC PDU is
assembled and this PDU includes a Sidelink BSR which contains buffer
status up to (and including) the last event that triggered a Sidelink
BSR (see clause 5.14.1.4), or, if all pending SR(s) are triggered by
Sidelink BSR, when upper layers configure autonomous resource selection,
or when the UL grant(s) can accommodate all pending data available for
transmission.

If the MAC entity has resources for SR configured on only one of SPUCCH
and PUCCH, that SR resource is valid for all logical channels. If the
MAC entity has resources for SR configured on both PUCCH and SPUCCH, MAC
entity shall consider all logical channels that have triggered an SR
(and at *retxBSR-Timer* expiry, MAC entity shall consider all logical
channels, belonging to a LCG, with data available for transmission):

\- PUCCH resources for SR are valid if *logicalChannelSr-Restriction* is
not configured, or if *logicalChannelSr-Restriction* allows SR on PUCCH,
for any of the logical channels;

\- SPUCCH resources for SR are valid if *logicalChannelSr-Restriction*
is not configured, or if *logicalChannelSr-Restriction* allows SR on
SPUCCH, for any of the logical channels.

If an SR is triggered and there is no other SR pending, the MAC entity
shall set the SR\_COUNTER and the SSR\_COUNTER to 0.

As long as one SR is pending, the MAC entity shall for each TTI:

\- if no UL-SCH resources are available for a transmission in this TTI:

\- Except for NB-IoT:

\- if the MAC entity has no valid PUCCH nor valid SPUCCH resource for SR
configured in any TTI:

\- if the MAC entity is a MCG MAC entity and *rach-Skip* is not
configured; or

\- if the MAC entity is a SCG MAC entity and *rach-SkipSCG* is not
configured:

\- initiate a Random Access procedure (see clause 5.1) on the
corresponding SpCell and cancel all pending SRs;

\- else if this TTI is not part of a measurement gap or Sidelink
Discovery Gap for Transmission, and if transmission of V2X sidelink
communication is not prioritized in this TTI as described in clause
5.14.1.2.2:

\- if the MAC entity has at least one valid SPUCCH resource for SR
configured for this TTI and if *ssr-ProhibitTimer* is not running:

\- if SSR\_COUNTER \< *dssr-TransMax*:

\- increment SSR\_COUNTER by 1;

\- instruct the physical layer to signal the SR on one valid SPUCCH
resource for SR;

\- start the *ssr-ProhibitTimer*.

\- else:

\- notify RRC to release SPUCCH for all serving cells;

\- if the MAC entity has no valid PUCCH resource for SR configured in
any TTI:

> \- notify RRC to release PUCCH for all serving cells;
>
> \- notify RRC to release SRS for all serving cells;
>
> \- clear any configured downlink assignments and uplink grants;
>
> \- initiate a Random Access procedure (see clause 5.1) on the SpCell
> and cancel all pending SRs.

\- if the MAC entity has at least one valid PUCCH resource for SR
configured for this TTI and if *sr-ProhibitTimer* is not running:

\- if SR\_COUNTER \< *dsr-TransMax*:

\- increment SR\_COUNTER by 1;

\- instruct the physical layer to signal the SR on one valid PUCCH
resource for SR;

\- start the *sr-ProhibitTimer*.

\- else:

\- notify RRC to release PUCCH and SPUCCH for all serving cells;

\- notify RRC to release SRS for all serving cells;

\- clear any configured downlink assignments and uplink grants;

\- initiate a Random Access procedure (see clause 5.1) on the SpCell and
cancel all pending SRs.

\- For NB-IoT:

\- if the MAC entity has no valid resource for SR together with
acknowledgement of the data in this TTI and no valid PRACH resource for
SR configured in any TTI:

\- initiate a Random Access Procedure (see clause 5.1), and cancel all
pending SRs in the first subframe containing PRACH for preamble
transmission.

\- else:

\- if the MAC entity has valid resource for SR together with
acknowledgement of the data in this TTI:

\- instruct the physical layer to signal the SR together with
acknowledgement of the data.

\- cancel, if any, initiated Random Access Procedure for SR.

\- else:

\- if the MAC entity has valid PRACH resource for SR configured in this
TTI and *sr-ProhibitTimer* is not running:

\- instruct the physical layer to signal the SR on one valid PRACH
resource for SR.

\- start the *sr-ProhibitTimer* in the subframe containing the last
repetition of the corresponding SR transmission.

NOTE 1: The selection of which valid PUCCH/SPUCCH resource for SR to
signal SR on when the MAC entity has more than one valid PUCCH/SPUCCH
resource for SR in one TTI or overlapping TTIs is left to UE
implementation.

NOTE 2: SR\_COUNTER is incremented for each SR bundle.
*sr-ProhibitTimer* is started in the first TTI of an SR bundle.

### 5.4.5 Buffer Status Reporting

The Buffer Status reporting procedure is used to provide the serving eNB
with information about the amount of data available for transmission in
the UL buffers associated with the MAC entity. RRC controls BSR
reporting by configuring the three timers *periodicBSR-Timer*,
*retxBSR-Timer* and *logicalChannelSR-ProhibitTimer* and by, for each
logical channel, optionally signalling *logicalChannelGroup* which
allocates the logical channel to an LCG, as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\].

For the Buffer Status reporting procedure, the MAC entity shall consider
all radio bearers which are not suspended and may consider radio bearers
which are suspended.

For NB-IoT the Long BSR is not supported and all logical channels belong
to one LCG.

A Buffer Status Report (BSR) shall be triggered if any of the following
events occur:

\- UL data, for a logical channel which belongs to a LCG, becomes
available for transmission in the RLC entity or in the PDCP entity (the
definition of what data shall be considered as available for
transmission is specified in TS 36.322 \[3\] and TS 36.323 \[4\] or
TS 38.323 \[17\] respectively) and either the data belongs to a logical
channel with higher priority than the priorities of the logical channels
which belong to any LCG and for which data is already available for
transmission, or there is no data available for transmission for any of
the logical channels which belong to a LCG, in which case the BSR is
referred below to as \"Regular BSR\";

\- UL resources are allocated and number of padding bits is equal to or
larger than the size of the Buffer Status Report MAC control element
plus its subheader, in which case the BSR is referred below to as
\"Padding BSR\";

\- *retxBSR-Timer* expires and the MAC entity has data available for
transmission for any of the logical channels which belong to a LCG, in
which case the BSR is referred below to as \"Regular BSR\";

\- *periodicBSR-Timer* expires, in which case the BSR is referred below
to as \"Periodic BSR\".

For Regular BSR:

\- if the BSR is triggered due to data becoming available for
transmission for a logical channel for which *logicalChannelSR-Prohibit*
is configured by upper layers:

\- start or restart the *logicalChannelSR-ProhibitTimer*;

\- else:

\- if running, stop the *logicalChannelSR-ProhibitTimer*.

For Regular and Periodic BSR:

\- if more than one LCG has data available for transmission in the TTI
where the BSR is transmitted: report Long BSR;

\- else report Short BSR.

For Padding BSR:

\- if the number of padding bits is equal to or larger than the size of
the Short BSR plus its subheader but smaller than the size of the Long
BSR plus its subheader:

\- if more than one LCG has data available for transmission in the TTI
where the BSR is transmitted: report Truncated BSR of the LCG with the
highest priority logical channel with data available for transmission;

\- else report Short BSR.

\- else if the number of padding bits is equal to or larger than the
size of the Long BSR plus its subheader, report Long BSR.

For NB-IoT or BL UEs:

\- if *rai-Activation* is configured, and a buffer size of zero bytes
has been triggered for the BSR, and the UE may have more data to send or
receive in the near future:

\- cancel any pending BSR.

If the Buffer Status reporting procedure determines that at least one
BSR has been triggered and not cancelled:

\- if the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for new transmission for
this TTI:

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate the BSR
MAC control element(s);

\- start or restart *periodicBSR-Timer* except when all the generated
BSRs are Truncated BSRs;

\- start or restart *retxBSR-Timer*.

\- else if a Regular BSR has been triggered and
*logicalChannelSR-ProhibitTimer* is not running:

\- if an uplink grant is not configured or the Regular BSR was not
triggered due to data becoming available for transmission for a logical
channel for which logical channel SR masking (*logicalChannelSR-Mask*)
is setup by upper layers; or

\- if *sr-WithHARQ-ACK-Config* is configured and there is valid resource
for SR together with acknowledgement of the data in this TTI:

\- a Scheduling Request shall be triggered.

A MAC PDU shall contain at most one MAC BSR control element, even when
multiple events trigger a BSR by the time a BSR can be transmitted in
which case the Regular BSR and the Periodic BSR shall have precedence
over the padding BSR.

For EDT, the MAC entity shall not generate a BSR MAC control element if
new transmission is for Msg3.

For CP-PUR, the MAC entity shall not generate a BSR MAC control element
if new transmission is intended for preconfigured uplink grant.

The MAC entity shall restart *retxBSR-Timer* upon indication of a grant
for transmission of new data on any UL-SCH.

All triggered BSRs shall be cancelled in case the UL grant(s) in this
TTI can accommodate all pending data available for transmission but is
not sufficient to additionally accommodate the BSR MAC control element
plus its subheader. All triggered BSRs shall be cancelled when a BSR is
included in a MAC PDU for transmission.

The MAC entity shall transmit at most one Regular/Periodic BSR in a TTI.
If the MAC entity is requested to transmit multiple MAC PDUs in a TTI,
it may include a padding BSR in any of the MAC PDUs which do not contain
a Regular/Periodic BSR.

All BSRs transmitted in a TTI always reflect the buffer status after all
MAC PDUs have been built for this TTI. Each LCG shall report at the most
one buffer status value per TTI and this value shall be reported in all
BSRs reporting buffer status for this LCG.

NOTE 1: A Padding BSR is not allowed to cancel a triggered
Regular/Periodic BSR, except for NB-IoT. A Padding BSR is triggered for
a specific MAC PDU only and the trigger is cancelled when this MAC PDU
has been built.

NOTE 2: If UL HARQ operation is autonomous for the HARQ entity and if
the BSR is already included in a MAC PDU for transmission by this HARQ
entity, but not yet transmitted by lower layers, it is up to UE
implementation how to handle the BSR content.

### 5.4.5a Data Volume and Power Headroom Reporting

The Data Volume and Power Headroom reporting procedure is only
applicable for NB-IoT UEs and is used to provide the serving eNB with
information about the amount of data available for transmission in the
UL buffers associated with the MAC entity, and to provide the serving
eNB with information about the difference between the nominal UE maximum
transmission power and the estimated transmission power for UL-SCH
transmission for the Serving Cell. The reporting is done using the DPR
MAC control element, which is sent in Msg3 together with a CCCH SDU. For
EDT, the Data Volume in DPR MAC control element is set to zero.

If *enhancedPHR* is configured and the UE supports extended power
headroom reporting, the UE shall:

\- if the UE supports power class 14dBm and the MAC entity considers
itself to be in enhanced coverage level other than 0:

\- report power headroom level using the DPR MAC control element;

\- else:

\- report extended power headroom level using the DPR MAC control
element for Extended Power Headroom level reporting.

### 5.4.6 Power Headroom Reporting

The Power Headroom reporting procedure is used to provide the serving
eNB with information about the difference between the nominal UE maximum
transmit power and the estimated power for UL-SCH transmission or SRS
transmission per activated Serving Cell and also with information about
the difference between the nominal UE maximum power and the estimated
power for UL-SCH and PUCCH/SPUCCH transmission on SpCell and PUCCH
SCell.

The reporting period, delay and mapping of Power Headroom are defined in
TS 36.133 \[9\] and TS 38.133 \[19\]. RRC controls Power Headroom
reporting by configuring the two timers *periodicPHR-Timer* and
*prohibitPHR-Timer*, and by signalling *dl-PathlossChange* which sets
the change in measured downlink pathloss and the required power backoff
due to power management (as allowed by P-MPR~c~, see TS 36.101 \[10\]
and TS 38.101-3 \[21\]) to trigger a PHR, as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\].

A Power Headroom Report (PHR) shall be triggered if any of the following
events occur:

\- *prohibitPHR-Timer* expires or has expired and the path loss has
changed more than *dl-PathlossChange* dB for at least one activated
Serving Cell of any MAC entity which is used as a pathloss reference
since the last transmission of a PHR in this MAC entity when the MAC
entity has UL resources for new transmission;

\- *periodicPHR-Timer* expires;

\- upon configuration or reconfiguration of the power headroom reporting
functionality by upper layers, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\], which is
not used to disable the function;

\- activation of an SCell of any MAC entity with configured uplink;

\- addition of the PSCell (i.e. PSCell is newly added or PSCell is
changed);

*- prohibitPHR-Timer* expires or has expired, when the MAC entity has UL
resources for new transmission, and the following is true in this TTI
for any of the activated Serving Cells of any MAC entity with configured
uplink:

\- there are UL resources allocated for transmission or there is a
PUCCH/SPUCCH transmission on this cell, and the required power backoff
due to power management (as allowed by P-MPR~c~, see TS 36.101 \[10\]
and TS 38.101-3 \[21\]) for this cell has changed more than
*dl-PathlossChange* dB since the last transmission of a PHR when the MAC
entity had UL resources allocated for transmission or PUCCH/SPUCCH
transmission on this cell.

NOTE 1: The MAC entity should avoid triggering a PHR when the required
power backoff due to power management decreases only temporarily (e.g.
for up to a few tens of milliseconds) and it should avoid reflecting
such temporary decrease in the values of P~CMAX,c~/PH when a PHR is
triggered by other triggering conditions.

NOTE 2: If UL HARQ operation is autonomous for the HARQ entity and if
the PHR is already included in a MAC PDU for transmission by this HARQ
entity, but not yet transmitted by lower layers, it is up to UE
implementation how to handle the PHR content.

If the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for new transmission for
this TTI the MAC entity shall:

\- if it is the first UL resource allocated for a new transmission since
the last MAC reset, start *periodicPHR-Timer*;

\- if the Power Headroom reporting procedure determines that at least
one PHR has been triggered and not cancelled, and;

\- if the allocated UL resources can accommodate the MAC control element
for PHR which the MAC entity is configured to transmit, plus its
subheader, as a result of logical channel prioritization:

\- if *extendedPHR* is configured:

\- for each activated Serving Cell with configured uplink:

\- obtain the value of the Type 1 or Type 3 power headroom;

\- if the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for transmission on this
Serving Cell for this TTI:

\- obtain the value for the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ field from the
physical layer;

\- if *simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH* is configured or a serving cell
operating according to Frame Structure Type 3 with uplink is configured
and activated:

\- obtain the value of the Type 2 power headroom for the PCell;

\- obtain the value for the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ field from the
physical layer (see clause 5.1.1.2 of TS 36.213 \[2\]);

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate and
transmit an Extended PHR MAC control element for *extendedPHR* as
defined in clause 6.1.3.6a based on the values reported by the physical
layer;

\- else if *extendedPHR2* is configured:

\- for each activated Serving Cell with configured uplink:

\- obtain the value of the Type 1 or Type 3 power headroom;

\- if the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for transmission on this
Serving Cell for this TTI:

\- obtain the value for the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ field from the
physical layer;

\- if a PUCCH SCell is configured and activated:

\- obtain the value of the Type 2 power headroom for the PCell and PUCCH
SCell;

\- obtain the values for the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ fields from the
physical layer (see clause 5.1.1.2 ofTS 36.213 \[2\]);

\- else:

\- if *simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH* is configured for the PCell or a serving
cell operating according to Frame Structure Type 3 with uplink is
configured and activated:

\- obtain the value of the Type 2 power headroom for the PCell;

\- obtain the value for the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ field from the
physical layer (see clause 5.1.1.2 of TS 36.213 \[2\]);

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate and
transmit an Extended PHR MAC control element for *extendedPHR2*
according to configured *ServCellIndex* and the PUCCH(s) for the MAC
entity as defined in clause 6.1.3.6a based on the values reported by the
physical layer;

\- else if *dualConnectivityPHR* is configured:

\- for each activated Serving Cell with configured uplink associated
with any MAC entity:

\- obtain the value of the Type 1 or Type 3 power headroom;

\- if this MAC entity has UL resources allocated for transmission on
this Serving Cell for this TTI or if the other MAC entity has UL
resources allocated for transmission on this Serving Cell for this TTI
and *phr-ModeOtherCG* is set to *real* by upper layers:

\- obtain the value for the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ field from the
physical layer;

\- if *simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH* is configured or a serving cell
operating according to Frame Structure Type 3 with uplink is configured
and activated:

\- obtain the value of the Type 2 power headroom for the SpCell;

\- obtain the value for the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ field for the SpCell
from the physical layer (see clause 5.1.1.2 of TS 36.213 \[2\]);

\- if the other MAC entity is E-UTRA MAC entity:

\- obtain the value of the Type 2 power headroom for the SpCell of the
other MAC entity.

\- if *phr-ModeOtherCG* is set to *real* by upper layers:

\- obtain the value for the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ field for the SpCell
of the other MAC entity from the physical layer (see clause 5.1.1.2 of
TS 36.213 \[2\]);

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate and
transmit a Dual Connectivity PHR MAC control element as defined in
clause 6.1.3.6b based on the values reported by the physical layer;

\- else:

\- obtain the value of the Type 1 power headroom from the physical
layer;

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate and
transmit a PHR MAC control element as defined in clause 6.1.3.6 based on
the value reported by the physical layer;

\- start or restart *periodicPHR-Timer*;

\- start or restart *prohibitPHR-Timer*;

\- cancel all triggered PHR(s).

### 5.4.7 Preconfigured Uplink Resource

#### 5.4.7.1 Transmission using PUR

Transmission using PUR is initiated by the RRC layer. When transmission
using PUR is initiated, RRC layer provides MAC with the following
information:

\- PUR-RNTI;

\- Duration of PUR response window *pur-ResponseWindowTimer*;

\- UL grant information.

If the MAC entity has a PUR-RNTI, the MAC entity shall for each TTI for
which RRC layer has provided uplink grant for transmission using PUR:

\- deliver the uplink grant, and the associated HARQ information to the
HARQ entity for this TTI.

After transmission using PUR, the MAC entity shall monitor PDCCH
identified by PUR-RNTI in the PUR response window using timer
*pur-ResponseWindowTimer*, which starts at the subframe that contains
the end of the corresponding PUSCH transmission plus 4 subframes*.*
While *pur-ResponseWindowTimer* is running, the MAC entity shall:

\- if the PDCCH transmission is addressed to the PUR-RNTI and contains
an UL grant for a retransmission:

\- restart *pur-ResponseWindowTimer at the last subframe of a PUSCH
transmission corresponding to the retransmission indicated by the UL
grant plus 4 subframes.*

\- if L1 ACK for transmission using PUR is received from lower layers;
or

\- if PDCCH transmission is addressed to the PUR-RNTI and the MAC PDU is
successfully decoded:

\- stop *pur-ResponseWindowTimer*;

\- if L1 ACK for transmission using PUR is received from lower layers or
the MAC PDU contains only Timing Advance Command MAC control element:

\- indicate to upper layers the transmission using PUR was successful;

\- if repetition adjustment for transmission using PUR is received from
lower layers:

\- indicate the value of the repetition adjustment to upper layers.

\- discard the PUR-RNTI.

\- else if fallback indication for PUR is received from lower layers:

\- stop *pur-ResponseWindowTimer*;

\- indicate to upper layers PUR fallback indication is received;

\- if repetition adjustment for transmission using PUR is received from
lower layers:

\- indicate the value of the repetition adjustment to upper layers.

\- discard the PUR-RNTI.

\- if the *pur-ResponseWindowTimer* expires:

\- indicate to upper layers the transmission using PUR has failed;

\- discard the PUR-RNTI.

#### 5.4.7.2 Maintenance of PUR Uplink Time Alignment

MAC entity may be configured with timer *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer* by
upper layers *as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\], clause 5.3.8.3*.

The MAC entity shall:

\- when *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer configuration is received from upper
layers:*

\- start or restart *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer.*

\- when *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer* is released by upper layers:

\- stop the *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer*, if running.

\- when a Timing Advance Command MAC control element is received or
PDCCH indicates timing advance adjustment as specified in TS 36.212
\[5\] and if a N~TA~ has been stored or maintained:

\- if the Timing Advance Command MAC control element or PDCCH indicating
timing advance adjustment is addressed with a PUR-RNTI:

\- apply the Timing Advance Command or the timing advance adjustment;

\- start or restart the *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer, if configured*;

\- indicate to upper layers that the Timing Advance value has been
adjusted.

\- upon considering a Random Access procedure successfully completed:

\- start or restart the *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer*, if configured;

\- indicate to upper layers that the Timing Advance value has been
adjusted;

\- if a temporary N~TA~ has been stored, delete the stored temporary
N~TA~.

\- upon considering a Random Access procedure unsuccessfully completed,
if a temporary N~TA~ has been stored:

\- set the N~TA~ to the stored temporary N~TA~;

\- delete the stored temporary N~TA~.

Upon request from upper layers, MAC entity shall indicate whether
*pur-TimeAlignmentTimer* is running.

### 5.4.8 Access Stratum Release Assistance Indication

Access Stratum Release Assistance Indication is used to provide the
serving eNB with information whether subsequent DL or UL transmission is
expected. AS RAI uses the DCQR and AS RAI MAC Control Element. Upper
layers trigger AS RAI.

For EDT and transmission using PUR, if AS RAI is triggered by upper
layers but is not included in the resulting MAC PDU with the MAC SDU as
a result of logical channel prioritization, AS RAI is cancelled, for
other transmissions if AS RAI is not included in the resulting MAC PDU
as a result of logical channel prioritization, AS RAI may be cancelled.

If *rai-Activation* is configured and a buffer size of zero bytes has
been triggered for the BSR and no subsequent DL and UL data transmission
is expected, and if *rai-ActivationEnh* is enabled and applicable as
specified in TS 36.331 \[8\], it is up to UE to send BSR MAC control
element or DCQR and AS RAI MAC control element.

5.5 PCH reception
-----------------

When the MAC entity needs to receive PCH, the MAC entity shall:

\- if a PCH assignment has been received on the PDCCH for the P-RNTI:

\- attempt to decode the TB on the PCH as indicated by the PDCCH
information.

\- if a TB on the PCH has been successfully decoded:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to upper layers.

5.6 BCH reception
-----------------

When the MAC entity needs to receive BCH, the MAC entity shall:

\- receive and attempt to decode the BCH;

\- if a TB on the BCH has been successfully decoded:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to upper layers.

5.7 Discontinuous Reception (DRX)
---------------------------------

The MAC entity may be configured by RRC with a DRX functionality that
controls the UE\'s PDCCH monitoring activity for the MAC entity\'s
C-RNTI, TPC-PUCCH-RNTI, TPC-PUSCH-RNTI, Semi-Persistent Scheduling
C-RNTI (if configured), UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling V-RNTI (if
configured), eIMTA-RNTI (if configured), SL-RNTI (if configured),
SL-V-RNTI (if configured), CC-RNTI (if configured), SRS-TPC-RNTI (if
configured), and AUL C-RNTI (if configured). When in RRC\_CONNECTED, if
DRX is configured, the MAC entity is allowed to monitor the PDCCH
discontinuously using the DRX operation specified in this clause;
otherwise the MAC entity monitors the PDCCH continuously. When using DRX
operation, the MAC entity shall also monitor PDCCH according to
requirements found in other clauses of this specification. RRC controls
DRX operation by configuring the timers *onDurationTimer*,
*drx-InactivityTimer*, *drx-RetransmissionTimer* (for HARQ processes
scheduled using 1ms TTI, one per DL HARQ process except for the
broadcast process), *drx-RetransmissionTimerShortTTI* (for HARQ
processes scheduled using short TTI, one per DL HARQ process),
*drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* (for HARQ processes scheduled using 1ms TTI,
one per asynchronous UL HARQ process),
*drx-ULRetransmissionTimerShortTTI* (for HARQ processes scheduled using
short TTI, one per asynchronous UL HARQ process), the *longDRX-Cycle*,
the value of the *drxStartOffset* and optionally the
*drxShortCycleTimer* and *shortDRX-Cycle*. A HARQ RTT timer per DL HARQ
process (except for the broadcast process) and UL HARQ RTT Timer per
asynchronous UL HARQ process is also defined (see clause 7.7).

When a DRX cycle is configured, the Active Time includes the time while:

*- onDurationTimer* or *drx-InactivityTimer* or
*drx-RetransmissionTimer* or *drx-RetransmissionTimerShortTTI* or
*drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* or *drx-ULRetransmissionTimerShortTTI* or
*mac-ContentionResolutionTimer* (as described in clause 5.1.5) is
running; or

\- a Scheduling Request is sent on PUCCH/SPUCCH and is pending (as
described in clause 5.4.4); or

\- an uplink grant for a pending HARQ retransmission can occur and there
is data in the corresponding HARQ buffer for synchronous HARQ process;
or

\- a PDCCH indicating a new transmission addressed to the C-RNTI of the
MAC entity has not been received after successful reception of a Random
Access Response for the preamble not selected by the MAC entity (as
described in clause 5.1.4) ; or

\- *mpdcch-UL-HARQ-ACK-FeedbackConfig* is configured and repetitions
within a bundle are being transmitted according to
UL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER.

When DRX is configured, the MAC entity shall for each subframe:

\- if a HARQ RTT Timer expires in this subframe:

\- if the data of the corresponding HARQ process was not successfully
decoded:

\- start the *drx-RetransmissionTimer* or
*drx-RetransmissionTimerShortTTI* for the corresponding HARQ process;

*-* if NB-IoT:

\- if lower layers had indicated multiple TBs were scheduled for the
associated expired HARQ RTT Timer:

\- start or restart *drx-InactivityTimer* when all HARQ RTT Timers have
expired;

\- else:

\- start or restart the *drx-InactivityTimer*.

\- if an UL HARQ RTT Timer expires in this subframe:

\- start the *drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* or
*drx-ULRetransmissionTimerShortTTI* for the corresponding HARQ process.

\- if NB-IoT:

\- if lower layers had indicated multiple TBs were scheduled for the
associated expired HARQ RTT Timer:

\- start or restart *drx-InactivityTimer* when all HARQ RTT Timers have
expired;

\- else:

\- start or restart the *drx-InactivityTimer*.

\- if a DRX Command MAC control element or a Long DRX Command MAC
control element is received:

\- stop *onDurationTimer*;

\- stop *drx-InactivityTimer*.

\- if *drx-InactivityTimer* expires or a DRX Command MAC control element
is received in this subframe:

\- if the Short DRX cycle is configured:

\- start or restart *drxShortCycleTimer*;

\- use the Short DRX Cycle.

\- else:

\- use the Long DRX cycle.

\- if *drxShortCycleTimer* expires in this subframe:

\- use the Long DRX cycle.

\- if a Long DRX Command MAC control element is received:

\- stop *drxShortCycleTimer*;

\- use the Long DRX cycle.

\- If the Short DRX Cycle is used and \[(SFN \* 10) + subframe number\]
modulo (*shortDRX-Cycle*) = (*drxStartOffset*) modulo
(*shortDRX-Cycle*); or

\- if the Long DRX Cycle is used and \[(SFN \* 10) + subframe number\]
modulo (*longDRX-Cycle*) = *drxStartOffset*:

\- if NB-IoT:

\- if there is at least one HARQ process for which neither HARQ RTT
Timer nor UL HARQ RTT Timer is running, start *onDurationTimer*.

\- else:

\- start onDurationTimer.

\- during the Active Time, for a PDCCH-subframe, if the subframe is not
required for uplink transmission for half-duplex FDD UE operation, and
if the subframe is not a half-duplex guard subframe, as specified in
TS 36.211 \[7\], and if the subframe is not part of a configured
measurement gap and if the subframe is not part of a configured Sidelink
Discovery Gap for Reception, and for NB-IoT if the subframe is not
required for uplink transmission or downlink reception other than on
PDCCH; or

\- during the Active Time, for a subframe other than a PDCCH-subframe
and for a UE capable of simultaneous reception and transmission in the
aggregated cells, if the subframe is a downlink subframe indicated by a
valid eIMTA L1 signalling for at least one serving cell not configured
with *schedulingCellId*, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\] and if the
subframe is not part of a configured measurement gap and if the subframe
is not part of a configured Sidelink Discovery Gap for Reception; or

\- during the Active Time, for a subframe other than a PDCCH-subframe
and for a UE not capable of simultaneous reception and transmission in
the aggregated cells, if the subframe is a downlink subframe indicated
by a valid eIMTA L1 signalling for the SpCell and if the subframe is not
part of a configured measurement gap and if the subframe is not part of
a configured Sidelink Discovery Gap for Reception:

\- monitor the PDCCH;

\- if the PDCCH indicates a DL transmission or if a DL assignment has
been configured for this subframe:

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE, a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- if lower layers have indicated scheduling of transmission of multiple
TBs:

\- start the HARQ RTT Timers for all HARQ processes corresponding to the
scheduled TBs in the subframe containing the last repetition of the
PDSCH corresponding to the last scheduled TB;

\- else:

\- start the HARQ RTT Timer for the corresponding HARQ process in the
subframe containing the last repetition of the corresponding PDSCH
reception;

\- else:

\- start the HARQ RTT Timer for the corresponding HARQ process;

\- stop the *drx-RetransmissionTimer* or
*drx-RetransmissionTimerShortTTI* for the corresponding HARQ process.

\- if NB-IoT, stop *drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* for all UL HARQ
processes.

\- if the PDCCH indicates an UL transmission for an asynchronous HARQ
process or if an UL grant has been configured for an asynchronous HARQ
process for this subframe, or if the PDCCH indicates an UL transmission
for an autonomous HARQ process or;

\- if the uplink grant is a configured grant for the MAC entity\'s AUL
C-RNTI and if the corresponding PUSCH transmission has been performed in
this subframe:

\- if *mpdcch-UL-HARQ-ACK-FeedbackConfig* is not configured:

\- if lower layers have indicated scheduling of transmission of multiple
TBs:

\- start the UL HARQ RTT Timers for all scheduled HARQ processes in the
subframe containing the last repetition of the PUSCH corresponding to
the last scheduled TB;

\- else:

\- start the UL HARQ RTT Timer for the corresponding HARQ process in the
subframe containing the last repetition of the corresponding PUSCH
transmission;

\- stop the *drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* or
*drx-ULRetransmissionTimerShortTTI* for the corresponding HARQ process;

\- if *mpdcch-UL-HARQ-ACK-FeedbackConfig* is configured and an UL
HARQ-ACK feedback has not been received on PDCCH until the last
repetition of the corresponding PUSCH transmission:

\- start or restart the *drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* for the
corresponding HARQ process in the subframe containing the last
repetition of the corresponding PUSCH transmission;

\- if NB-IoT, stop *drx-RetransmissionTimer* for all DL HARQ processes.

\- if the PDCCH indicates a new transmission (DL, UL or SL):

\- except for an NB-IoT UE configured with a single DL and UL HARQ
process and when PDCCH indicates the transmission is not for multiple
TBs:

\- start or restart *drx-InactivityTimer*.

\- if the PDCCH indicates a transmission (DL, UL) for an NB-IoT UE:

\- if the NB-IoT UE is configured with a single DL and UL HARQ process;
or

\- if the PDCCH indicates the transmission is for multiple TBs:

\- stop *drx-Inactivity*Timer.

\- stop *onDurationTimer.*

\- if the PDCCH indicates an UL HARQ-ACK feedback for an asynchronous UL
HARQ process for a UE configured with
*mpdcch-UL-HARQ-ACK-FeedbackConfig*:

\- if the lower layer had indicated scheduling of transmission of
multiple TBs:

\- stop *drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* for the corresponding UL HARQ
process(es).

\- else if the PUSCH transmission is completed:

\- stop *drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* for all UL HARQ processes.

\- if the PDCCH indicates HARQ feedback for one or more HARQ processes
for which UL HARQ operation is autonomous:

\- stop the *drx-ULRetransmissionTimer* for the corresponding HARQ
process(es).

\- in current subframe n, if the MAC entity would not be in Active Time
considering grants/assignments/DRX Command MAC control elements/Long DRX
Command MAC control elements received and Scheduling Request sent until
and including subframe n-5 when evaluating all DRX Active Time
conditions as specified in this clause, type-0-triggered SRS, as
specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], shall not be reported.

\- if CQI masking (*cqi-Mask*) is setup by upper layers:

\- in current TTI n, if *onDurationTimer* would not be running
considering grants/assignments/DRX Command MAC control elements/Long DRX
Command MAC control elements received until and including TTI n-5 when
evaluating all DRX Active Time conditions as specified in this clause,
CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI on PUCCH shall not be reported.

\- else:

\- in current TTI n, if the MAC entity would not be in Active Time
considering grants/assignments/DRX Command MAC control elements/Long DRX
Command MAC control elements received and Scheduling Request sent until
and including TTI n-5 when evaluating all DRX Active Time conditions as
specified in this clause, CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI on PUCCH shall not be
reported.

For NB-IoT, *onDurationTimer* may start within a PDCCH period and end
within a PDCCH period. The UE shall monitor NPDCCH during these partial
PDCCH periods while *onDurationTimer* is running.

Regardless of whether the MAC entity is monitoring PDCCH or not, the MAC
entity receives and transmits HARQ feedback and transmits
type-1-triggered SRS, as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], when such is
expected. The MAC entity monitors PDCCH addressed to CC-RNTI for a PUSCH
trigger B, as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], on the corresponding SCell
even if the MAC entity is not in Active Time. when such is expected.

When the BL UE or the UE in enhanced coverage or NB-IoT UE receives
PDCCH, the UE executes the corresponding action specified in this clause
in the subframe following the subframe containing the last repetition of
the PDCCH reception where such subframe is determined by the starting
subframe and the DCI subframe repetition number field in the PDCCH
specified in TS 36.213 \[2\], unless explicitly stated otherwise.

NOTE 1: The same Active Time applies to all activated serving cell(s).

NOTE 2: In case of downlink spatial multiplexing, if a TB is received
while the HARQ RTT Timer is running and the previous transmission of the
same TB was received at least N subframes before the current subframe
(where N corresponds to the HARQ RTT Timer), the MAC entity should
process it and restart the HARQ RTT Timer.

NOTE 3: The MAC entity does not consider PUSCH trigger B, as specified
in TS 36.213 \[2\], to be an indication of a new transmission.

NOTE 4: For NB-IoT, for operation in FDD mode, and for operation in TDD
mode with a single HARQ process, DL and UL transmissions will not be
scheduled in parallel, i.e. if a DL transmission has been scheduled an
UL transmission will not be scheduled until HARQ RTT Timer of the DL
HARQ process has expired (and vice versa).

5.7a Discontinuous Reception (DRX) for SC-PTM
---------------------------------------------

Each G-RNTI and, for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage,
each SC-RNTI of the MAC entity may be configured by RRC with a DRX
functionality that controls the UE\'s PDCCH monitoring activity for this
G-RNTI and SC-RNTI as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\]. When in RRC\_IDLE or
RRC\_CONNECTED, if DRX is configured, the MAC entity is allowed to
monitor the PDCCH for this G-RNTI or SC-RNTI discontinuously using the
DRX operation specified in this clause; otherwise the MAC entity
monitors the PDCCH for this G-RNTI or SC-RNTI continuously. For each
G-RNTI or SC-RNTI of the MAC entity, RRC controls its DRX operation by
configuring the timers *onDurationTimerSCPTM*,
*drx-InactivityTimerSCPTM*, the *SCPTM-SchedulingCycle* and the value of
the *SCPTM-SchedulingOffset* for G-RNTI and for SC-RNTI. The DRX
operation specified in this clause is performed independently for each
G-RNTI and SC-RNTI and independently from the DRX operation specified in
subcaluse 5.7.

When DRX is configured for a G-RNTI or for SC-RNTI, the Active Time
includes the time while:

*- onDurationTimerSCPTM* or *drx-InactivityTimerSCPTM* is running.

When DRX is configured for a G-RNTI or for SC-RNTI as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\], the MAC entity shall for each subframe for this G-RNTI
or SC-RNTI:

\- if \[(H-SFN \* 10240 + SFN \* 10) + subframe number\] modulo
(*SCPTM-SchedulingCycle*) = *SCPTM-SchedulingOffset*:

\- start *onDurationTimerSCPTM*.

\- during the Active Time, for a PDCCH-subframe:

\- monitor the PDCCH;

\- if the PDCCH indicates a DL transmission:

\- if the UE is a BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage:

\- start or re-start the *drx-InactivityTimerSCPTM* in the subframe
containing the last repetition of the corresponding PDSCH reception.

\- if the UE is an NB-IoT UE:

\- stop *onDurationTimerSCPTM*;

\- stop *drx-InactivityTimerSCPTM*;

\- start the *drx-InactivityTimerSCPTM* in the first subframe of the
next PDCCH occasion following the subframe containing the last
repetition of the corresponding PDSCH reception.

\- else:

\- start or restart *drx-InactivityTimerSCPTM*.

NOTE: If H-SFN is not configured its value is set to 0 in the
calculation of the starting subframe.

5.8 MAC reconfiguration
-----------------------

When a reconfiguration of the MAC entity is requested by upper layers,
the MAC entity shall:

\- upon addition of an SCell, initialize the corresponding HARQ entity;

\- upon removal of an SCell, remove the corresponding HARQ entity;

\- for timers apply the new value when the timer is (re)started;

\- when counters are initialized apply the new maximum parameter value;

\- for other parameters, apply immediately the configurations received
from upper layers.

5.9 MAC Reset
-------------

If a reset of the MAC entity is requested by upper layers, the MAC
entity shall:

\- initialize Bj for each logical channel to zero;

\- except for *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer,* if configured*,* stop (if
running) all timers;

\- except for *pur-TimeAlignmentTimer,* if configured*,* consider all
*timeAlignmentTimers* as expired and perform the corresponding actions
in clause 5.2;

\- set the NDIs for all uplink HARQ processes to the value 0;

\- stop, if any, ongoing RACH procedure;

\- discard explicitly signalled *ra-PreambleIndex* and
*ra-PRACH-MaskIndex*, if any;

\- flush Msg3 buffer;

\- cancel, if any, triggered Scheduling Request procedure;

\- cancel, if any, triggered Buffer Status Reporting procedure;

\- cancel, if any, triggered Power Headroom Reporting procedure;

\- cancel, if any, triggered Recommended bit rate query procedure;

\- flush the soft buffers for all DL HARQ processes;

\- for each DL HARQ process, consider the next received transmission for
a TB as the very first transmission;

\- release, if any, Temporary C-RNTI.

If a partial reset of the MAC entity is requested by upper layers, for a
serving cell, the MAC entity shall for the serving cell:

\- set the NDIs for all uplink HARQ processes to the value 0;

\- flush all UL HARQ buffers;

\- stop all running *drx-ULRetransmissionTimers*;

\- stop all running UL HARQ RTT timers;

\- stop, if any, ongoing RACH procedure;

\- discard explicitly signalled *ra-PreambleIndex* and
*ra-PRACH-MaskIndex*, if any;

\- flush Msg3 buffer;

\- release, if any, Temporary C-RNTI.

5.10 Semi-Persistent Scheduling
-------------------------------

Except for NB-IoT, multiple UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling configurations
are supported per Serving Cell. For NB-IoT, UL Semi-Persistent
Scheduling configuration is only supported for BSR per Serving Cell. On
one Serving Cell, multiple UL configurations can be active
simultaneously only for the same TTI length. Multiple UL/DL
configurations can also be active simultaneously on different Serving
Cells.

When Semi-Persistent Scheduling is enabled by RRC, the following
information is provided, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\]:

\- Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI or UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling
V-RNTI;

\- Uplink Semi-Persistent Scheduling interval
*semiPersistSchedIntervalUL* if short TTI in UL for the SpCell is not
configured or *semiPersistSchedIntervalUL*-*sTTI* in UL for the SpCell
if short TTI is configured and number of empty transmissions before
implicit release *implicitReleaseAfter*, if Semi-Persistent Scheduling
with Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI is enabled for the uplink;

\- Uplink Semi-Persistent Scheduling interval
*semiPersistSchedIntervalUL* and number of empty transmissions before
implicit release *implicitReleaseAfter* for each SPS configuration, if
Semi-Persistent Scheduling with UL Semi-Persistent Scheduling V-RNTI is
enabled for the uplink;

\- Whether *twoIntervalsConfig* is enabled or disabled for uplink, only
for TDD;

\- Downlink Semi-Persistent Scheduling interval
*semiPersistSchedIntervalDL* if short TTI in DL for the SpCell is not
configured or *semiPersistSchedIntervalDL*-*sTTI* if short TTI in DL for
the SpCell is configured and number of configured HARQ processes for
Semi-Persistent Scheduling *numberOfConfSPS-Processes*, if
Semi-Persistent Scheduling is enabled for the downlink;

\- *sTTIStartTimeDl* if short TTI in DL for the SpCell is configured and
*sTTIStartTimeUl* if short TTI in UL for the SpCell is configured;

When Semi-Persistent Scheduling for uplink or downlink is disabled by
RRC, the corresponding configured grant or configured assignment shall
be discarded.

Semi-Persistent Scheduling is not supported for RN communication with
the E-UTRAN in combination with an RN subframe configuration.

NOTE: When eIMTA is configured, if a configured uplink grant or a
configured downlink assignment occurs on a subframe that can be
reconfigured through eIMTA L1 signalling, then the UE behaviour is left
unspecified.

### 5.10.1 Downlink

After a Semi-Persistent downlink assignment is configured, the MAC
entity shall consider sequentially that the N^th^ assignment occurs in
the TTI for which:

\- subframe SPS is used:

\- (10 \* SFN + subframe) = \[(10 \* SFN~start\ time~ +
subframe~start\ time~) + N \* *semiPersistSchedIntervalDL*\] modulo
10240.

\- slot or subslot SPS is used:

\- (10 \* SFN \* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + subframe \*
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + sTTI\_number) = \[(10 \* SFN~start\ time~
\* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + subframe~start\ time~ \*
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + *sTTIStartTimeDl*) + N \*
*semiPersistSchedIntervalDL-sTTI*\] modulo (10240 \*
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe).

Where SFN~start\ time~, subframe~start\ time~ and *sTTIStartTimeDl* are
the SFN, subframe and sTTI\_number, respectively, at the time the
configured downlink assignment were (re-)initialised. The
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe is 6 when subslot TTI is configued and 2
when slot TTI is configured for short TTI operation. sTTI\_number refers
to the index of the short TTI, i.e., index of subslot or slot within the
subframe.

For BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage SFN~start\ time~ and
subframe~start\ time~ refer to SFN and subframe of the first
transmission of PDSCH where configured downlink assignment was
(re-)initialized.

### 5.10.2 Uplink

After a Semi-Persistent Scheduling uplink grant is configured, the MAC
entity shall:

\- if *twoIntervalsConfig* is enabled by upper layer:

\- set the Subframe\_Offset according to Table 7.4-1.

> \- else:

\- set Subframe\_Offset to 0.

\- consider sequentially that the N^th^ grant occurs in the TTI for
which:

\- subframe SPS is used:

\- (10 \* SFN + subframe) = \[(10 \* SFN~start\ time~ +
subframe~start\ time~) + N \* *semiPersistSchedIntervalUL* +
Subframe\_Offset \* (N modulo 2)\] modulo 10240.

\- slot or subslot SPS is used:

\- (10 \* SFN \* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + subframe \*
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + sTTI\_number) = \[(10 \* SFN~start\ time~
\* sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + subframe~start\ time~ \*
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe + *sTTIStartTimeUl*) + N \*
*semiPersistSchedIntervalUL-sTTI*+ Subframe\_Offset \* (N modulo 2) \*
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe\] modulo (10240 \*
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe).

Where SFN~start\ time~, subframe~start\ time~ and *sTTIStartTimeUl* are
the SFN, subframe and sTTI\_number, respectively, at the time the
configured uplink grant were (re-)initialised. The
sTTI\_Number\_Per\_Subframe is 6 when subslot TTI is configued and 2
when slot TTI is configured for short TTI operation. sTTI\_number refers
to the index of the short TTI, i.e., index of subslot or slot within the
subframe.

Except for NB-IoT, for TDD, the MAC entity is configured with
*semiPersistSchedIntervalUL* shorter than 10 subframes, the N^th^ grant
shall be ignored if it occurs in a downlink subframe or a special
subframe.

Except for NB-IoT, if the MAC entity is not configured with
*skipUplinkTxSPS*, the MAC entity shall clear the configured uplink
grant immediately after *implicitReleaseAfter*, as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\], number of consecutive new MAC PDUs each containing zero
MAC SDUs have been provided by the Multiplexing and Assembly entity, on
the Semi-Persistent Scheduling resource.

If SPS confirmation has been triggered and not cancelled:

\- if the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for new transmission for
this TTI:

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate an SPS
confirmation MAC Control Element as defined in clause 6.1.3.11;

\- cancel the triggered SPS confirmation.

The MAC entity shall clear the configured uplink grant immediately after
first transmission of SPS confirmation MAC Control Element triggered by
the SPS release.

NOTE: Retransmissions for Semi-Persistent Scheduling can continue after
clearing the configured uplink grant.

For NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage SFN~start\ time~ and
subframe~start\ time~ refer to SFN and subframe of the first
transmission of PUSCH where configured uplink grant was
(re-)initialized.

In the event of a resource conflict between multiple UL SPS
configurations configured with Uplink Semi-Persistent Scheduling V-RNTI,
the UE behaviour is undefined.

In the event of a resource conflict in the same serving cell between the
initial transmision within a configured grant bundle from multiple
different UL SPS configurations configured with Uplink Semi-Persistent
Scheduling C-RNTI, the UE behaviour is undefined.

For NB-IoT UEs, a configured uplink grant shall be used only for BSR or
SPS confirmation transmission, and *skipUplinkTxSPS* is implicitly
configured.

5.11 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
----------------------------------------------------------------

When a MAC entity receives a MAC PDU for the MAC entity\'s C-RNTI or
Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI, or by the configured downlink
assignment, containing reserved or invalid values, the MAC entity shall:

\- discard the received PDU.

When a MAC entity receives a MAC PDU on MCH containing reserved values,
or on DL-SCH containing reserved values for G-RNTI or SC-RNTI, or on
SL-SCH, the MAC entity shall:

\- ignore the MAC PDU subheaders containing reserved values and the
corresponding MAC SDUs;

\- in the MAC control elements, ignore the fields containing reserved
values and the fields associated with the fields containing reserved
values.

5.12 MCH reception
------------------

MCH transmission may occur in subframes configured by upper layer for
MCCH or MTCH transmission. For each such subframe, upper layer indicates
if *signallingMCS* or *dataMCS* applies. The transmission of an MCH
occurs in a set of subframes defined by *PMCH-Config*. An MCH Scheduling
Information MAC control element is included in the first subframe
allocated to the MCH within the MCH scheduling period to indicate the
position of each MTCH and unused subframes on the MCH. If
*pmch-InfoListExt* is configured for an MCH, an Extended MCH Scheduling
Information MAC control element is included in the first subframe
allocated to the corresponding MCH within the MCH scheduling period to
indicate the position of each MTCH and unused subframes on the MCH, and
to indicate whether MTCH transmission is to be suspended. The MAC entity
shall assume that the first scheduled MTCH starts immediately after the
MCCH or the MCH Scheduling Information MAC control element or the
Extended MCH Scheduling Information MAC control element if the MCCH is
not present, and the other scheduled MTCH(s) start immediately after the
previous MTCH, at the earliest in the subframe where the previous MTCH
stops. When the MAC entity needs to receive MCH, the MAC entity shall:

\- attempt to decode the TB on the MCH;

\- if a TB on the MCH has been successfully decoded:

\- demultiplex the MAC PDU and deliver the MAC SDU(s) to upper layers.

When the MAC entity receives the Extended MCH Scheduling Information MAC
control element, the MAC entity shall indicate the MTCH(s) to be
suspended to the upper layers.

NOTE: The MAC entity should continue receiving MCH until the MTCH is
removed from the MCCH.

5.13 Activation/Deactivation of SCells
--------------------------------------

If the MAC entity is configured with one or more SCells, the network may
activate and deactivate the configured SCells. The SpCell is always
activated. The network activates and deactivates the SCell(s) by sending
Activation/Deactivation and/or Hibernation MAC control element(s)
described in clause 6.1.3.8 and 6.1.3.15 respectively. Furthermore, the
MAC entity maintains a *sCellDeactivationTimer* timer per configured
SCell (except the SCell configured with PUCCH/SPUCCH, if any) and
deactivates the associated SCell upon its expiry. In case the
*sCellHibernationTimer* is configured, it takes priority over
*sCellDeactivationTimer*. The same initial timer value applies to each
instance of the *sCellDeactivationTimer* and it is configured by RRC.
The configured SCells are initially deactivated upon addition and after
a handover unless the parameter *sCellState* is set to *activated* or
*dormant* for the SCell within RRC configuration. The configured SCG
SCells are initially deactivated after a SCG change unless the parameter
*sCellState* is set to *activated* or *dormant* for the SCell within RRC
configuration.

The MAC entity shall for each TTI and for each configured SCell:

\- if the MAC entity is configured with an activated SCell upon SCell
configuration or receives MAC control element(s) in this TTI activating
the SCell, the MAC entity shall in the TTI according to the timing
defined in TS 36.213 \[2\]:

\- activate the SCell; i.e. apply normal SCell operation including:

\- SRS transmissions on the SCell;

\- if *cqi-ShortConfigSCell* is configured:

\- CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI reporting for the SCell using the short period of
the CSI (CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI) reporting resource configured by
*cqi-ShortConfigSCell* according to the timing defined in
TS 36.213 \[2\].

\- else:

\- CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI reporting for the SCell using the configuration in
*cqi-ReportConfigSCell*.

\- PDCCH monitoring on the SCell;

\- PDCCH monitoring for the SCell;

\- PUCCH/SPUCCH transmissions on the SCell, if configured.

\- start or restart the *sCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the
SCell;

\- if *sCellHibernationTimer* associated with the SCell is configured;

\- start or restart the *sCellHibernationTimer* associated with the
SCell.

\- trigger PHR according to clause 5.4.6.

\- else, if the MAC entity receives MAC control element(s) in this TTI
deactivating the SCell; or

\- if the *sCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the activated SCell
expires in this TTI and *sCellHibernationTimer* is not configured:

\- in the TTI according to the timing defined in TS 36.213 \[2\]:

\- deactivate the SCell;

\- stop the *sCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- clear any configured downlink assignments and uplink grants
associated with the SCell;

\- flush all HARQ buffers associated with the SCell.

\- if PDCCH on the activated SCell indicates an uplink grant or downlink
assignment; or

\- if PDCCH on the Serving Cell scheduling the activated SCell indicates
an uplink grant or a downlink assignment for the activated SCell; or

\- if a MAC PDU is transmitted in a configured uplink grant or received
in a configured downlink assignment:

\- restart the *sCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- if *sCellHibernationTimer* associated with the SCell is configured;

\- restart the *sCellHibernationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- if the SCell is activated and the *cqi-ShortConfigSCell* expires in
this TTI, according to the timing defined in TS 36.213 \[2\]:

\- apply SCell CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI reporting for the SCell using the
configuration in *cqi-ReportConfigSCell*;

\- if the SCell is deactivated:

\- not transmit SRS on the SCell;

\- not report CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI for the SCell;

\- not transmit on UL-SCH on the SCell;

\- not transmit on RACH on the SCell;

\- not monitor the PDCCH on the SCell;

\- not monitor the PDCCH for the SCell;

\- not transmit PUCCH/SPUCCH on the SCell.

HARQ feedback for the MAC PDU containing Activation/Deactivation MAC
control element shall not be impacted by PCell, PSCell and PUCCH SCell
interruptions due to SCell activation/deactivation, as specified in
TS 36.133 \[9\].

NOTE: When SCell is deactivated, the ongoing Random Access procedure on
the SCell, if any, is aborted.

5.14 SL-SCH Data transfer
-------------------------

### 5.14.1 SL-SCH Data transmission

#### 5.14.1.1 SL Grant reception and SCI transmission

In order to transmit on the SL-SCH the MAC entity must have at least one
sidelink grant.

Sidelink grants are selected as follows for sidelink communication:

\- if the MAC entity is configured to receive a single sidelink grant
dynamically on the PDCCH and more data is available in STCH than can be
transmitted in the current SC period, the MAC entity shall:

\- using the received sidelink grant determine the set of subframes in
which transmission of SCI and transmission of first transport block
occur according to clause 14.2.1 of TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the received sidelink grant to be a configured sidelink
grant occurring in those subframes starting at the beginning of the
first available SC Period which starts at least 4 subframes after the
subframe in which the sidelink grant was received, overwriting a
previously configured sidelink grant occurring in the same SC period, if
available;

\- clear the configured sidelink grant at the end of the corresponding
SC Period;

\- else, if the MAC entity is configured by upper layers to receive
multiple sidelink grants dynamically on the PDCCH and more data is
available in STCH than can be transmitted in the current SC period, the
MAC entity shall for each received sidelink grant:

\- using the received sidelink grant determine the set of subframes in
which transmission of SCI and transmission of first transport block
occur according to clause 14.2.1 of TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the received sidelink grant to be a configured sidelink
grant occurring in those subframes starting at the beginning of the
first available SC Period which starts at least 4 subframes after the
subframe in which the sidelink grant was received, overwriting a
previously configured sidelink grant received in the same subframe
number but in a different radio frame as this configured sidelink grant
occurring in the same SC period, if available;

\- clear the configured sidelink grant at the end of the corresponding
SC Period;

\- else, if the MAC entity is configured by upper layers to transmit
using one or multiple pool(s) of resources as indicated in clause 5.10.4
of TS 36.331 \[8\] and more data is available in STCH than can be
transmitted in the current SC period, the MAC entity shall for each
sidelink grant to be selected:

\- if configured by upper layers to use a single pool of resources:

\- select that pool of resources for use;

\- else, if configured by upper layers to use multiple pools of
resources:

\- select a pool of resources for use from the pools of resources
configured by upper layers whose associated priority list includes the
priority of the highest priority of the sidelink logical channel in the
MAC PDU to be transmitted;

NOTE 1: If more than one pool of resources has an associated priority
list which includes the priority of the sidelink logical channel with
the highest priority in the MAC PDU to be transmitted, it is left for UE
implementation which one of those pools of resources to select.

\- randomly select the time and frequency resources for SL-SCH and SCI
of a sidelink grant from the selected resource pool. The random function
shall be such that each of the allowed selections (see TS 36.213 \[2\])
can be chosen with equal probability;

\- use the selected sidelink grant to determine the set of subframes in
which transmission of SCI and transmission of first transport block
occur according to clause 14.2.1 of TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the selected sidelink grant to be a configured sidelink
grant occurring in those subframes starting at the beginning of the
first available SC Period which starts at least 4 subframes after the
subframe in which the sidelink grant was selected;

\- clear the configured sidelink grant at the end of the corresponding
SC Period;

NOTE 2: Retransmissions on SL-SCH cannot occur after the configured
sidelink grant has been cleared.

NOTE 3: If the MAC entity is configured by upper layers to transmit
using one or multiple pool(s) of resources as indicated in clause 5.10.4
of TS 36.331 \[8\], it is left for UE implementation how many sidelink
grants to select within one SC period taking the number of sidelink
processes into account.

Sidelink grants are selected as follows for V2X sidelink communication:

\- if the MAC entity is configured to receive a sidelink grant
dynamically on the PDCCH and data is available in STCH, the MAC entity
shall for each carrier configured in *sl-V2X-ConfigDedicated* for which
a sidelink grant has been dynamically received on the PDCCH for this
TTI:

\- use the received sidelink grant to determine the number of HARQ
retransmissions and the set of subframes in which transmission of SCI
and SL-SCH occur according to clauses 14.2.1 and 14.1.1.4A of
TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the received sidelink grant to be a configured sidelink
grant for the carrier;

\- if the MAC entity is configured by upper layers to receive a sidelink
grant on the PDCCH addressed to SL Semi-Persistent Scheduling V-RNTI,
the MAC entity shall for each SL SPS configuration and for each carrier
configured in *sl-V2X-ConfigDedicated* for which a sidelink grant has
been received on the PDCCH addressed to SL Semi-Persistent Scheduling
V-RNTI either for this TTI or for this PDCCH occasion according to
clause 3.1 of TS 38.321 \[24\]:

\- if PDCCH contents indicate SPS activation:

\- use the received sidelink grant to determine the number of HARQ
retransmissions and the set of subframes in which transmission of SCI
and SL-SCH occur according to clauses 14.2.1 and 14.1.1.4A of TS 36.213
\[2\];

\- consider the received sidelink grant to be a configured sidelink
grant for the carrier.

\- if PDCCH contents indicate SPS release:

\- clear the corresponding configured sidelink grant for the carrier.

\- if the MAC entity is configured by upper layers to transmit using
pool(s) of resources in one or multiple carriers as indicated in either
clause 5.10.13.1 of TS 36.331 \[8\] or TS 38.331 \[25\] based on
sensing, or partial sensing, or random selection only if upper layers
indicates that transmissions of multiple MAC PDUs are allowed according
to either clause 5.10.13.1a of TS 36.331 \[8\] or TS 38.331 \[25\], and
the MAC entity selects to create a configured sidelink grant
corresponding to transmissions of multiple MAC PDUs, and data is
available in STCH associated with one or multiple carriers, the MAC
entity shall for each Sidelink process configured for multiple
transmissions:

\- if there is no configured sidelink grant associated with the Sidelink
process on any carrier allowed for the STCH as indicated by upper
layers, as specified in TS 24.386 \[15\]:

\- trigger the TX carrier (re-)selection procedure as specified in
clause 5.14.1.5;

\- else if there is a configured sidelink grant associated with the
Sidelink process:

\- if SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER = 0 and when
SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER was equal to 1 the MAC entity
randomly selected, with equal probability, a value in the interval \[0,
1\] which is above the probability configured by upper layers in
*probResourceKeep*; or

\- if neither transmission nor retransmission has been performed by the
MAC entity on any resource indicated in the configured sidelink grant
during the last second; or

\- if *sl-ReselectAfter* is configured and the number of consecutive
unused transmission opportunities on resources indicated in the
configured sidelink grant is equal to *sl-ReselectAfter*; or

\- if none of the configured sidelink grant(s) on the carrier(s) allowed
for the STCH have radio resources available in this TTI to accommodate a
RLC SDU according to clause 5.14.1.3.1 by using the maximum allowed MCS
configured by upper layers in *maxMCS-PSSCH* and the MAC entity selects
not to segment the RLC SDU; or

NOTE 4: If none of the configured sidelink grant(s) on the carrier(s)
allowed for the STCH have radio resources available in this TTI to
accommodate the RLC SDU according to clause 5.14.1.3.1, it is left for
UE implementation whether to perform segmentation or sidelink resource
reselection.

\- if none of the configured sidelink grant(s) on the carrier(s) allowed
for the STCH have radio resources available in this TTI, according to
clause 5.14.1.3.1 to fulfil the latency requirement of the data in a
sidelink logical channel according to the associated PPPP, and the MAC
entity selects not to perform transmission(s) corresponding to a single
MAC PDU; or

NOTE 5: If the latency requirement is not met, it is left for UE
implementation whether to perform transmission(s) corresponding to
single MAC PDU or sidelink resource reselection.

\- if the pool of resources where the sidelink grant is configured for
the Sidelink process, is reconfigured by upper layers:

\- trigger the TX carrier (re-)selection procedure as specified in
clause 5.14.1.5;

\- clear the configured sidelink grant associated to the Sidelink
process;

\- flush the HARQ buffer associated to the Sidelink process;

\- else if SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER = 0 and when
SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER was equal to 1 the MAC entity
randomly selected, with equal probability, a value in the interval \[0,
1\] which is less than or equal to the probability configured by upper
layers in *probResourceKeep*:

\- clear the configured sidelink grant, if available;

\- randomly select, with equal probability, an integer value in the
interval \[5, 15\] for the resource reservation interval higher than or
equal to 100ms, in the interval \[10, 30\] for the resource reservation
interval equal to 50ms or in the interval \[25, 75\] for the resource
reservation interval equal to 20ms, and set
SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER to the selected value;

\- use the previously selected sidelink grant for the number of
transmissions of the MAC PDUs determined in clause 14.1.1.4B of
TS 36.213 \[2\] with the resource reservation interval to determine the
set of subframes in which transmissions of SCI and SL-SCH occur
according to clauses 14.2.1 and 14.1.1.4B of TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the selected sidelink grant to be a configured sidelink
grant;

\- if the TX carrier (re-)selection procedure was triggered in above and
one or more carriers have been (re-)selected in the Tx carrier
(re-)selection according to clause 5.14.1.5:

\- determine the order of the (re-)selected carriers, according to the
decreasing order based on the highest priority of logical channels which
are allowed on each (re-)selected carrier, and perform the following for
each Sidelink process on each (re-)selected carrier according to the
order:

\- select one of the allowed values configured by upper layers in
*restrictResourceReservationPeriod* and set the resource reservation
interval by multiplying 100 with the selected value;

NOTE 6: How the UE selects this value is up to UE implementation.

\- randomly select, with equal probability, an integer value in the
interval \[5, 15\] for the resource reservation interval higher than or
equal to 100ms, in the interval \[10, 30\] for the resource reservation
interval equal to 50ms or in the interval \[25, 75\] for the resource
reservation interval equal to 20ms, and set
SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER to the selected value;

\- select the number of HARQ retransmissions from the allowed numbers
that are configured by upper layers in *allowedRetxNumberPSSCH* included
in *pssch-TxConfigList* and, if configured by upper layers, overlapped
in *allowedRetxNumberPSSCH* indicated in *cbr-pssch-TxConfigList* for
the highest priority of the sidelink logical channel(s) allowed on the
selected carrier and the CBR measured by lower layers according to
TS 36.214 \[6\] if CBR measurement results are available or the
corresponding *defaultTxConfigIndex* configured by upper layers if CBR
measurement results are not available;

\- select an amount of frequency resources within the range that is
configured by upper layers between *minSubchannel-NumberPSSCH* and
*maxSubchannel-NumberPSSCH* included in *pssch-TxConfigList* and, if
configured by upper layers, overlapped between
*minSubchannel-NumberPSSCH* and *maxSubchannel-NumberPSSCH* indicated in
*cbr-pssch-TxConfigList* for the highest priority of the sidelink
logical channel(s) allowed on the selected carrier and the CBR measured
by lower layers according to TS 36.214 \[6\] if CBR measurement results
are available or the corresponding *defaultTxConfigIndex* configured by
upper layers if CBR measurement results are not available;

\- randomly select the time and frequency resources for one transmission
opportunity from the resources indicated by the physical layer according
to clause 14.1.1.6 of TS 36.213 \[2\], according to the amount of
selected frequency resources. The selected time and frequency resources
shall fulfil the physical layer requirements as specified in TS 36.101
\[10\], and the random function shall be such that each of the allowed
selections can be chosen with equal probability;

\- use the randomly selected resource to select a set of periodic
resources spaced by the resource reservation interval for transmission
opportunities of SCI and SL-SCH corresponding to the number of
transmission opportunities of MAC PDUs determined in clause 14.1.1.4B of
TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- if the number of HARQ retransmissions is equal to 1:

\- if there are available resources left in the resources indicated by
the physical layer according to clause 14.1.1.6 of TS 36.213 \[2\] that
meet the conditions in clause 14.1.1.7 of TS 36.213 \[2\] for more
transmission opportunities:

\- randomly select the time and frequency resources for one transmission
opportunity from the available resources, according to the amount of
selected frequency resources. The selected time and frequency resources
shall fulfil the physical layer requirements as specified in TS 36.101
\[10\], and the random function shall be such that each of the allowed
selections can be chosen with equal probability;

\- use the randomly selected resource to select a set of periodic
resources spaced by the resource reservation interval for the other
transmission opportunities of SCI and SL-SCH corresponding to the number
of retransmission opportunities of the MAC PDUs determined in clause
14.1.1.4B of TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the first set of transmission opportunities as the new
transmission opportunities and the other set of transmission
opportunities as the retransmission opportunities;

\- consider the set of new transmission opportunities and retransmission
opportunities as the selected sidelink grant.

\- else:

\- consider the set as the selected sidelink grant;

\- use the selected sidelink grant to determine the set of subframes in
which transmissions of SCI and SL-SCH occur according to clause 14.2.1
and 14.1.1.4B of TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the selected sidelink grant to be a configured sidelink
grant;

\- else, if the MAC entity is configured by upper layers to transmit
using pool(s) of resources in one or multiple carriers as indicated in
either clause 5.10.13.1 of TS 36.331 \[8\] or TS 38.331 \[25\], the MAC
entity selects to create a configured sidelink grant corresponding to
transmission(s) of a single MAC PDU, and data is available in STCH
associated with one or multiple carriers, the MAC entity shall for a
Sidelink process:

\- trigger the TX carrier (re-)selection procedure as specified in
clause 5.14.1.5;

\- if one or more carriers have been (re-)selected in the Tx carrier
(re-)selection according to clause 5.14.1.5:

\- determine the order of the (re-)selected carriers, according to the
decreasing order based on the highest priority of logical channels which
are allowed on each (re-)selected carrier, and perform the following for
each Sidelink process on each (re-)selected carrier according to the
order:

\- select the number of HARQ retransmissions from the allowed numbers
that are configured by upper layers in *allowedRetxNumberPSSCH* included
in *pssch-TxConfigList* and, if configured by upper layers, overlapped
in *allowedRetxNumberPSSCH* indicated in *cbr-pssch-TxConfigList* for
the highest priority of the sidelink logical channel(s) allowed on the
selected carrier and the CBR measured by lower layers according to
TS 36.214 \[6\] if CBR measurement results are available or the
corresponding *defaultTxConfigIndex* configured by upper layers if CBR
measurement results are not available;

\- select an amount of frequency resources within the range that is
configured by upper layers between *minSubchannel-NumberPSSCH* and
*maxSubchannel-NumberPSSCH* included in *pssch-TxConfigList* and, if
configured by upper layers, overlapped between
*minSubchannel-NumberPSSCH* and *maxSubchannel-NumberPSSCH* indicated in
*cbr-pssch-TxConfigList* for the highest priority of the sidelink
logical channel(s) allowed on the selected carrier and the CBR measured
by lower layers according to TS 36.214 \[6\] if CBR measurement results
are available or the corresponding *defaultTxConfigIndex* configured by
upper layers if CBR measurement results are not available;

\- randomly select the time and frequency resources for one transmission
opportunity of SCI and SL-SCH from the resources indicated by the
physical layer according to clause 14.1.1.6 of TS 36.213 \[2\] ,
according to the amount of selected frequency resources. The selected
time and frequency resources shall fulfil the physical layer requirement
as specified in TS 36.101 \[10\], and the random function shall be such
that each of the allowed selections can be chosen with equal
probability;

\- if the number of HARQ retransmissions is equal to 1:

\- if there are available resources left in the resources indicated by
the physical layer according to clause 14.1.1.6 of TS 36.213 \[2\] that
meet the conditions in subcause 14.1.1.7 of TS 36.213 \[2\] for one more
transmission opportunity:

\- randomly select the time and frequency resources for the other
transmission opportunity of SCI and SL-SCH corresponding to additional
transmission of the MAC PDU from the available resources, according to
the amount of selected frequency resources. The selected time and
frequency resources shall fulfil the physical layer requirements as
specified in TS 36.101 \[10\], and the random function shall be such
that each of the allowed selections can be chosen with equal
probability;

\- consider a transmission opportunity which comes first in time as the
new transmission opportunity and a transmission opportunity which comes
later in time as the retransmission opportunity;

\- consider both of the transmission opportunities as the selected
sidelink grant;

\- else:

\- consider the transmission opportunity as the selected sidelink grant;

\- use the selected sidelink grant to determine the subframes in which
transmission(s) of SCI and SL-SCH occur according to clause 14.2.1 and
14.1.1.4B of TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the selected sidelink grant to be a configured sidelink
grant.

NOTE 7: For V2X sidelink communication, the UE should ensure the
randomly selected time and frequency resources fulfill the latency
requirement.

NOTE 8: For V2X sidelink communication, when there is no overlapping
between the chosen configuration(s) in *pssch-TxConfigList* and chosen
configuration(s) indicated in *cbr-pssch-TxConfigList*, it is up to UE
implementation whether the UE transmits and which transmitting
parameters the UE uses between allowed configuration(s) indicated in
*pssch-TxConfigList* and allowed configuration(s) indicated in
*cbr-pssch-TxConfigList*.

The MAC entity shall for each subframe:

\- for each configured sidelink grant occurring in this subframe:

\- if SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER = 1 for the Sidelink process
associated with the configured sidelink grant and the MAC entity
randomly selected, with equal probability, a value in the interval \[0,
1\] which is above the probability configured by upper layers in
*probResourceKeep*:

\- set the resource reservation interval for the configured sidelink
grant equal to 0;

\- if the configured sidelink grant corresponds to transmission of SCI:

\- for V2X sidelink communication in UE autonomous resource selection:

\- consider the selected transmission format to be *SL-V2X-TxProfile*
for the highest priority of the sidelink logical channel(s) in the MAC
PDU (TS 36.331 \[8\]);

\- select a MCS which is, if configured, within the range that is
configured by upper layers between *minMCS-PSSCH* and *maxMCS-PSSCH*
included in *pssch-TxConfigList* associated with the selected
transmission format and, if configured by upper layers, overlapped
between *minMCS-PSSCH* and *maxMCS-PSSCH* indicated in
*cbr-pssch-TxConfigList* associated with the selected transmission
format for the highest priority of the sidelink logical channel(s) in
the MAC PDU and the CBR measured by lower layers according to
TS 36.214 \[6\] if CBR measurement results are available or the
corresponding *defaultTxConfigIndex* configured by upper layers if CBR
measurement results are not available;

> NOTE 9: MCS selection is up to UE implementation if the MCS or the
> corresponding range is not configured by upper layers.
>
> NOTE 10: For V2X sidelink communication, when there is no overlapping
> between the chosen configuration(s) included in *pssch-TxConfigList*
> and chosen configuration(s) indicated in *cbr-pssch-TxConfigList*, it
> is up to UE implementation whether the UE transmits and which
> transmitting parameters the UE uses between allowed configuration(s)
> indicated in *pssch-TxConfigList* and allowed configuration(s)
> indicated in *cbr-pssch-TxConfigList*.

\- for V2X sidelink communication in scheduled resource allocation:

\- consider the selected transmission format to be *SL-V2X-TxProfile*
for the highest priority of the sidelink logical channel(s) in the MAC
PDU (TS 36.331 \[8\]);

\- select a MCS which is associated with the selected transmission
format unless it is configured by upper layer;

\- instruct the physical layer to transmit SCI corresponding to the
configured sidelink grant;

\- for V2X sidelink communication, deliver the configured sidelink
grant, the associated HARQ information and the value of the highest
priority of the sidelink logical channel(s) in the MAC PDU to the
Sidelink HARQ Entity for this subframe;

\- else if the configured sidelink grant corresponds to transmission of
first transport block for sidelink communication:

\- deliver the configured sidelink grant and the associated HARQ
information to the Sidelink HARQ Entity for this subframe.

NOTE 11: If the MAC entity has multiple configured sidelink grants
occurring in one subframe and if not all of them can be processed due to
the single-cluster SC-FDM restriction, it is left for UE implementation
which one of these to process according to the procedure above.

#### 5.14.1.2 Sidelink HARQ operation

##### 5.14.1.2.1 Sidelink HARQ Entity

The MAC entity is configured by upper layers to transmit using pool(s)
of resources on one or multiple carriers as indicated in clause
5.10.13.1 of TS 36.331 \[8\]. For each carrier, there is one Sidelink
HARQ Entity at the MAC entity for transmission on SL-SCH, which
maintains a number of parallel Sidelink processes.

For sidelink communication, the number of transmitting Sidelink
processes associated with the Sidelink HARQ Entity is defined in
TS 36.331 \[8\].

For V2X sidelink communication, the maximum number of transmitting
Sidelink processes associated with each Sidelink HARQ Entity is 8. A
sidelink process may be configured for transmissions of multiple MAC
PDUs. For transmissions of multiple MAC PDUs, the maximum number of
transmitting Sidelink processes associated with each Sidelink HARQ
Entity is 2.

A delivered and configured sidelink grant and its associated HARQ
information are associated with a Sidelink process.

For each subframe of the SL-SCH and each Sidelink process, the Sidelink
HARQ Entity shall:

\- if a sidelink grant corresponding to a new transmission opportunity
has been indicated for this Sidelink process and there is SL data, for
sidelink logical channels of ProSe destination associated with this
sidelink grant, available for transmission:

\- obtain the MAC PDU from the \"Multiplexing and assembly\" entity;

\- deliver the MAC PDU and the sidelink grant and the HARQ information
to this Sidelink process;

\- instruct this Sidelink process to trigger a new transmission.

\- else, if this subframe corresponds to retransmission opportunity for
this Sidelink process:

\- instruct this Sidelink process to trigger a retransmission.

NOTE: The resources for retransmission opportunities are specified in
clause 14.2.1 of TS 36.213 \[2\] unless specified in clause 5.14.1.1.

##### 5.14.1.2.2 Sidelink process

The Sidelink process is associated with a HARQ buffer.

The sequence of redundancy versions is 0, 2, 3, 1. The variable
CURRENT\_IRV is an index into the sequence of redundancy versions. This
variable is updated modulo 4.

New transmissions and retransmissions either for a given SC period in
sidelink communication or in V2X sidelink communication are performed on
the resource indicated in the sidelink grant as specified in clause
5.14.1.1 and with the MCS selected as specified in clause 5.14.1.1.

If the sidelink process is configured to perform transmissions of
multiple MAC PDUs for V2X sidelink communication the process maintains a
counter SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER. For other configurations of
the sidelink process, this counter is not available.

If the Sidelink HARQ Entity requests a new transmission, the Sidelink
process shall:

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to 0;

\- store the MAC PDU in the associated HARQ buffer;

\- store the sidelink grant received from the Sidelink HARQ Entity;

\- generate a transmission as described below.

If the Sidelink HARQ Entity requests a retransmission, the Sidelink
process shall:

\- generate a transmission as described below.

To generate a transmission, the Sidelink process shall:

\- if there is no uplink transmission; or if the MAC entity is able to
perform uplink transmissions and transmissions on SL-SCH simultaneously
at the time of the transmission; or if there is a MAC PDU to be
transmitted in this TTI in uplink, except a MAC PDU obtained from the
Msg3 buffer, and transmission of V2X sidelink communication is
prioritized over uplink transmission; and

\- if there is no Sidelink Discovery Gap for Transmission or no
transmission on PSDCH at the time of the transmission; or, in case of
transmissions of V2X sidelink communication, if the MAC entity is able
to perform transmissions on SL-SCH and transmissions on PSDCH
simultaneously at the time of the transmission:

\- instruct the physical layer to generate a transmission according to
the stored sidelink grant with the redundancy version corresponding to
the CURRENT\_IRV value.

\- increment CURRENT\_IRV by 1;

\- if this transmission corresponds to the last transmission of the MAC
PDU:

\- decrement SL\_RESOURCE\_RESELECTION\_COUNTER by 1, if available.

The transmission of the MAC PDU for V2X sidelink communication is
prioritized over uplink transmissions if the following conditions are
met:

\- if the MAC entity is not able to perform all uplink transmissions and
all transmissions of V2X sidelink communication simultaneously at the
time of the transmission; and

\- if uplink transmission is not prioritized by upper layer according to
TS 24.386 \[15\]; and

\- if *thresSL-TxPrioritization* is configured and the value of the
highest priority of the sidelink logical channel(s) in the MAC PDU is
lower than *thresSL-TxPrioritization*.

#### 5.14.1.3 Multiplexing and assembly

For PDU(s) associated with one SCI, MAC shall consider only logical
channels with the same Source Layer-2 ID-Destination Layer-2 ID pair.

Multiple transmissions within overlapping SC periods to different ProSe
Destinations are allowed subject to single-cluster SC-FDM constraint.

In V2X sidelink communication, multiple transmissions for different
Sidelink processes are allowed to be independently performed in
different subframes.

##### 5.14.1.3.1 Logical channel prioritization

The Logical Channel Prioritization procedure is applied when a new
transmission is performed. Each sidelink logical channel has an
associated priority which is the PPPP and optionally an associated PPPR.
Multiple sidelink logical channels may have the same associated
priority. The mapping between priority and LCID is left for UE
implementation. If duplication is activated as specified in
TS 36.323 \[4\], the MAC entity shall map different sidelink logical
channels which correspond to the same PDCP entity onto different
carriers in accordance with clause 5.14.1.5, or onto different carriers
of different carrier sets (if configured in *allowedCarrierFreqList* for
the corresponding destination). For a given sidelink logical channel, it
is up to UE implementation which carrier set to select among the carrier
sets configured in *allowedCarrierFreqList* (if configured) for the
corresponding destination.

The MAC entity shall perform the following Logical Channel
Prioritization procedure either for each SCI transmitted in an SC period
in sidelink communication, or for each SCI corresponding to a new
transmission in V2X sidelink communication:

\- The MAC entity shall allocate resources to the sidelink logical
channels in the following steps:

\- Only consider sidelink logical channels not previously selected for
this SC period and the SC periods (if any) which are overlapping with
this SC period, to have data available for transmission in sidelink
communication;

\- Only consider sidelink logical channels which meet the following
conditions:

\- allowed on the carrier where the SCI is transmitted for V2X sidelink
communication, if the carrier is configured by upper layers according to
TS 36.331 \[8\] and TS 24.386 \[15\];

\- having a priority whose associated *threshCBR-FreqReselection* is no
lower than the CBR of the carrier when the carrier is (re-)selected in
accordance with 5.14.1.5;

\- Only consider one sidelink logical channel among sidelink logical
channels corresponding to same PDCP entity, if duplication is activated
as specified in TS 36.323 \[4\].

> \- Step 0: Select a ProSe Destination, having the sidelink logical
> channel with the highest priority, among the sidelink logical channels
> having data available for transmission and having the same
> transmission format as the one selected corresponding to the ProSe
> Destination;

NOTE: The sidelink logical channels belonging to the same ProSe
Destination have the same transmission format.

\- For each MAC PDU associated to the SCI:

\- Step 1: Among the sidelink logical channels belonging to the selected
ProSe Destination and having data available for transmission, allocate
resources to the sidelink logical channel with the highest priority;

\- Step 2: if any resources remain, sidelink logical channels belonging
to the selected ProSe Destination are served in decreasing order of
priority until either the data for the sidelink logical channel(s) or
the SL grant is exhausted, whichever comes first. Sidelink logical
channels configured with equal priority should be served equally.

\- The UE shall also follow the rules below during the scheduling
procedures above:

\- the UE should not segment an RLC SDU (or partially transmitted SDU)
if the whole SDU (or partially transmitted SDU) fits into the remaining
resources;

\- if the UE segments an RLC SDU from the sidelink logical channel, it
shall maximize the size of the segment to fill the grant as much as
possible;

\- the UE should maximise the transmission of data;

\- if the MAC entity is given a sidelink grant size that is equal to or
larger than 10 bytes (for sidelink communication) or 11 bytes (for V2X
sidelink communication) while having data available for transmission,
the MAC entity shall not transmit only padding.

##### 5.14.1.3.2 Multiplexing of MAC SDUs

The MAC entity shall multiplex MAC SDUs in a MAC PDU according to
clauses 5.14.1.3.1 and 6.1.6.

#### 5.14.1.4 Buffer Status Reporting

The sidelink Buffer Status reporting procedure is used to provide the
serving eNB with information about the amount of sidelink data available
for transmission in the SL buffers associated with the MAC entity. RRC
controls BSR reporting for the sidelink by configuring the two timers
*periodic-BSR-TimerSL* and *retx-BSR-TimerSL*. Each sidelink logical
channel belongs to a ProSe Destination. Each sidelink logical channel is
allocated to an LCG depending on the priority and optionally the PPPR of
the sidelink logical channel, and the mapping between LCG ID and
priority and optionally the mapping between LCG ID and PPPR which are
provided by upper layers in *logicalChGroupInfoList*, as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\]. LCG is defined per ProSe Destination.

A sidelink Buffer Status Report (BSR) shall be triggered if any of the
following events occur:

\- if the MAC entity has a configured SL-RNTI or a configured SL-V-RNTI:

\- SL data, for a sidelink logical channel of a ProSe Destination,
becomes available for transmission in the RLC entity or in the PDCP
entity (the definition of what data shall be considered as available for
transmission is specified in TS 36.322 \[3\] and TS 36.323 \[4\]
respectively) and either the data belongs to a sidelink logical channel
with higher priority than the priorities of the sidelink logical
channels which belong to any LCG belonging to the same ProSe Destination
and for which data is already available for transmission, or there is
currently no data available for transmission for any of the sidelink
logical channels belonging to the same ProSe Destination, in which case
the Sidelink BSR is referred below to as \"Regular Sidelink BSR\";

\- UL resources are allocated and number of padding bits remaining after
a Padding BSR has been triggered is equal to or larger than the size of
the Sidelink BSR MAC control element containing the buffer status for at
least one LCG of a ProSe Destination plus its subheader, in which case
the Sidelink BSR is referred below to as \"Padding Sidelink BSR\";

\- *retx-BSR-TimerSL* expires and the MAC entity has data available for
transmission for any of the sidelink logical channels, in which case the
Sidelink BSR is referred below to as \"Regular Sidelink BSR\";

\- *periodic-BSR-TimerSL* expires, in which case the Sidelink BSR is
referred below to as \"Periodic Sidelink BSR\";

\- else:

\- An SL-RNTI or an SL-V-RNTI is configured by upper layers and SL data
is available for transmission in the RLC entity or in the PDCP entity
(the definition of what data shall be considered as available for
transmission is specified in TS 36.322 \[3\] and TS 36.323 \[4\]
respectively), in which case the Sidelink BSR is referred below to as
\"Regular Sidelink BSR\".

For Regular and Periodic Sidelink BSR:

\- if the number of bits in the UL grant is equal to or larger than the
size of a Sidelink BSR containing buffer status for all LCGs having data
available for transmission plus its subheader:

\- report Sidelink BSR containing buffer status for all LCGs having data
available for transmission;

\- else report Truncated Sidelink BSR containing buffer status for as
many LCGs having data available for transmission as possible, taking the
number of bits in the UL grant into consideration.

For Padding Sidelink BSR:

\- if the number of padding bits remaining after a Padding BSR has been
triggered is equal to or larger than the size of a Sidelink BSR
containing buffer status for all LCGs having data available for
transmission plus its subheader:

\- report Sidelink BSR containing buffer status for all LCGs having data
available for transmission;

\- else report Truncated Sidelink BSR containing buffer status for as
many LCGs having data available for transmission as possible, taking the
number of bits in the UL grant into consideration.

If the Buffer Status reporting procedure determines that at least one
Sidelink BSR has been triggered and not cancelled:

\- if the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for new transmission for
this TTI and the allocated UL resources can accommodate a Sidelink BSR
MAC control element plus its subheader as a result of logical channel
prioritization:

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate the
Sidelink BSR MAC control element(s);

\- start or restart *periodic-BSR-TimerSL* except when all the generated
Sidelink BSRs are Truncated Sidelink BSRs;

\- start or restart *retx-BSR-TimerSL*;

\- else if a Regular Sidelink BSR has been triggered:

\- if an uplink grant is not configured:

\- a Scheduling Request shall be triggered.

A MAC PDU shall contain at most one Sidelink BSR MAC control element,
even when multiple events trigger a Sidelink BSR by the time a Sidelink
BSR can be transmitted in which case the Regular Sidelink BSR and the
Periodic Sidelink BSR shall have precedence over the padding Sidelink
BSR.

The MAC entity shall restart *retx-BSR-TimerSL* upon reception of an SL
grant.

All triggered regular Sidelink BSRs shall be cancelled in case the
remaining configured SL grant(s) valid for this SC Period can
accommodate all pending data available for transmission in sidelink
communication or in case the remaining configured SL grant(s) valid can
accommodate all pending data available for transmission in V2X sidelink
communication. All triggered Sidelink BSRs shall be cancelled in case
the MAC entity has no data available for transmission for any of the
sidelink logical channels. All triggered Sidelink BSRs shall be
cancelled when a Sidelink BSR (except for Truncated Sidelink BSR) is
included in a MAC PDU for transmission. All triggered Sidelink BSRs
shall be cancelled, and *retx-BSR-TimerSL* and *periodic-BSR-TimerSL*
shall be stopped, when upper layers configure autonomous resource
selection.

The MAC entity shall transmit at most one Regular/Periodic Sidelink BSR
in a TTI. If the MAC entity is requested to transmit multiple MAC PDUs
in a TTI, it may include a padding Sidelink BSR in any of the MAC PDUs
which do not contain a Regular/Periodic Sidelink BSR.

All Sidelink BSRs transmitted in a TTI always reflect the buffer status
after all MAC PDUs have been built for this TTI. Each LCG shall report
at the most one buffer status value per TTI and this value shall be
reported in all Sidelink BSRs reporting buffer status for this LCG.

NOTE: A Padding Sidelink BSR is not allowed to cancel a triggered
Regular/Periodic Sidelink BSR. A Padding Sidelink BSR is triggered for a
specific MAC PDU only and the trigger is cancelled when this MAC PDU has
been built.

#### 5.14.1.5 TX carrier (re-)selection for V2X sidelink communication

The MAC entity shall consider a CBR of a carrier to be one measured by
lower layers according to TS 36.214 \[6\] if CBR measurement results are
available, or the corresponding *defaultTxConfigIndex* configured by
upper layers for the carrier if CBR measurement results are not
available.

If the TX carrier (re-)selection is triggered for a Sidelink process
according to clause 5.14.1.1, the MAC entity shall:

\- if there is no configured sidelink grant on any carrier allowed for
the sidelink logical channel where data is available as indicated by
upper layers (TS 36.331 \[8\] and TS 24.386 \[15\]):

\- for each carrier configured by upper layers associated with the
concerned sidelink logical channel:

\- if the CBR of the carrier is below *threshCBR-FreqReselection*
associated with the priority of the sidelink logical channel:

\- consider the carrier as a candidate carrier for TX carrier
(re-)selection for the concerned sidelink logical channel.

\- else:

\- for each sidelink logical channel, if any, where data is available
and that are allowed on the carrier for which Tx carrier (re-)selection
is triggered according to clause 5.14.1.1:

\- if the CBR of the carrier is below *threshCBR-FreqKeeping* associated
with priority of the sidelink logical channel:

\- select the carrier and the associated pool of resources.

\- else:

\- for each carrier configured by upper layers on which the sidelink
logical channel is allowed, if the CBR of the carrier is below
*threshCBR-FreqReselection* associated with the priority of the sidelink
logical channel;

\- consider the carrier as a candidate carrier for TX carrier
(re-)selection.

The MAC entity shall:

\- if one or more carriers are considered as the candidate carriers for
TX carrier (re-)selection:

\- for each sidelink logical channel allowed on the carrier where data
is available and Tx carrier (re-)selection is triggered:

\- select one or more carrier(s) and associated pool(s) of resources
among the candidate carriers with increasing order of CBR from the
lowest CBR.

NOTE 1: It is left to UE implementation how many carriers to select
based on UE capability.

NOTE 2: It is left to UE implementation to determine the sidelink
logical channels among the sidelink logical channels where data is
available and that are allowed on the carrier for which Tx carrier (re-)
selection is triggered.

NOTE 3: If the MAC entity is configured by the upper layer to receive a
sidelink grant dynamically on the PDCCH, it is left to UE implementation
to determine which carriers configured by upper layer in
*sl-V2X-ConfigDedicated*, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\] are considered
as selected carriers for the sidelink synchronization procedures in
clauses 5.10.7, 5.10.8 and 5.10.8a of TS 36.331 \[8\].

### 5.14.2 SL-SCH Data reception

#### 5.14.2.1 SCI reception

SCI transmitted on the PSCCH indicate if there is a transmission on
SL-SCH and provide the relevant HARQ information.

The MAC entity shall:

\- for each subframe during which the MAC entity monitors PSCCH:

\- if SCI for this subframe has been received on the PSCCH for sidelink
communication with a Group Destination ID of interest to this MAC
entity:

\- determine the set of subframes in which reception of the first
transport blocks occur according to clause 14.2.2 of TS 36.213 \[2\]
using the received SCI;

\- store the SCI and associated HARQ information as SCI valid for the
subframes corresponding to first transmission of each transport block;

\- else if SCI for this subframe has been received on the PSCCH for V2X
sidelink communication:

\- determine the set of subframes in which reception of the transport
block occur according to clause 14.1.2 of TS 36.213 \[2\] using the
received SCI;

\- store the SCI and associated HARQ information as SCI valid for the
subframes corresponding to transmission(s) of the transport block;

\- for each subframe for which the MAC entity has a valid SCI:

\- deliver the SCI and the associated HARQ information to the Sidelink
HARQ Entity.

#### 5.14.2.2 Sidelink HARQ operation

##### 5.14.2.2.1 Sidelink HARQ Entity

For each carrier, there is one Sidelink HARQ Entity at the MAC entity
for reception of the SL-SCH, which maintains a number of parallel
Sidelink processes.

Each Sidelink process is associated with SCI in which the MAC entity is
interested. If SCI includes the Group Destination ID, this interest is
as determined by the Group Destination ID of the SCI. The Sidelink HARQ
Entity directs HARQ information and associated TBs received on the
SL-SCH to the corresponding Sidelink processes.

The number of Receiving Sidelink processes associated with the Sidelink
HARQ Entity is defined in TS 36.331 \[8\].

For each subframe of the SL-SCH, the Sidelink HARQ Entity shall:

\- for each SCI valid in this subframe:

\- allocate the TB received from the physical layer and the associated
HARQ information to a Sidelink process, associate this Sidelink process
with this SCI and consider this transmission to be a new transmission.

\- for each Sidelink process:

\- if this subframe corresponds to retransmission opportunity for the
Sidelink process according to its associated SCI:

\- allocate the TB received from the physical layer and the associated
HARQ information to the Sidelink process and consider this transmission
to be a retransmission.

##### 5.14.2.2.2 Sidelink process

For each subframe where a transmission takes place for the Sidelink
process, one TB and the associated HARQ information is received from the
Sidelink HARQ Entity.

The sequence of redundancy versions is 0, 2, 3, 1. The variable
CURRENT\_IRV is an index into the sequence of redundancy versions. This
variable is updated modulo 4.

For each received TB and associated HARQ information, the Sidelink
process shall:

\- if this is a new transmission:

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to 0;

\- store the received data in the soft buffer and optionally attempt to
decode the received data according to CURRENT\_IRV.

\- else if this is a retransmission:

\- if the data for this TB has not yet been successfully decoded:

\- increment CURRENT\_IRV by 1;

\- combine the received data with the data currently in the soft buffer
for this TB and optionally attempt to decode the combined data according
to the CURRENT\_IRV.

\- if the data which the MAC entity attempted to decode was successfully
decoded for this TB:

\- if this is the first successful decoding of the data for this TB:

\- if the DST field of the decoded MAC PDU subheader is equal to the 16
MSB of any of the Destination Layer-2 ID(s) of the UE for which the 8
LSB are equal to the Group Destination ID in the corresponding SCI:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to the disassembly and demultiplexing
entity.

\- else if the DST field of the decoded MAC PDU subheader is equal to
any of the Destination Layer-2 ID(s) of the UE:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to the disassembly and demultiplexing
entity.

#### 5.14.2.3 Disassembly and demultiplexing

The MAC entity shall disassemble and demultiplex a MAC PDU as defined in
clause 6.1.6.

5.15 SL-DCH data transfer
-------------------------

### 5.15.1 SL-DCH data transmission

#### 5.15.1.1 Resource allocation

In order to transmit MAC PDU(s) on SL-DCH, the MAC entity shall for
every discovery period and each MAC PDU:

\- if the MAC entity is configured by upper layers with a specific grant
as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\]:

\- using the specific grant determine the set of subframes in which a
transmission of new MAC PDU(s) occur according to clause 14.3.1 of
TS 36.213 \[2\];

\- consider the determined set of subframes to be a configured grant for
the corresponding discovery period;

\- for every subframe, if the MAC entity has a configured grant
occurring in that subframe, deliver the configured grant and the MAC PDU
to the Sidelink HARQ Entity;

\- clear the configured grant at the end of the corresponding discovery
period.

NOTE: Mapping between grant and physical resources is specified in
clause 9.5.6 of TS 36.211 \[7\].

\- else if the MAC entity is configured with a single pool of resources
by upper layers:

\- select a random value p1 in the range from 0 to 1, where the random
function shall be such that each of the allowed selections can be chosen
with equal probability;

\- if p1 is less than *txProbability*:

\- select a random resource from the pool of resources (excluding any
resources which are overlapping with PRACH or resources belonging to the
subframes of resources already selected for transmissions on SL-DCH in
this discovery period), where the random function shall be such that
each of the allowed selections (see clause 14.3.1 of TS 36.213 \[2\])
can be chosen with equal probability;

\- using the selected resource determine the set of subframes in which
the transmission of a MAC PDU can occur according to clause 14.3.1 of
TS 36.213 \[2\]

\- consider the determined set of subframes to be a configured grant for
the corresponding discovery period;

\- for every subframe, if the MAC entity has a configured grant
occurring in that subframe, deliver the configured grant and the MAC PDU
to the Sidelink HARQ Entity;

\- clear the configured grant at the end of the corresponding discovery
period.

#### 5.15.1.2 Sidelink HARQ operation

##### 5.15.1.2.1 Sidelink HARQ Entity

There is one Sidelink HARQ Entity at the MAC entity for transmission on
SL-DCH, which maintains one Sidelink process for each MAC PDU.

For each subframe of the SL-DCH the Sidelink HARQ Entity shall:

\- if a grant and a MAC PDU has been delivered for this subframe to the
Sidelink HARQ Entity:

\- deliver the MAC PDU and the grant to the Sidelink process;

\- instruct the Sidelink process to trigger a new transmission.

\- else, if this subframe corresponds to retransmission opportunity for
the Sidelink process:

\- instruct the Sidelink process to trigger a retransmission.

##### 5.15.1.2.2 Sidelink process

The Sidelink process is associated with a HARQ buffer.

The Sidelink process shall maintain a state variable CURRENT\_TX\_NB,
which indicates the number of transmissions that have taken place for
the MAC PDU currently in the buffer. When the Sidelink process is
established, CURRENT\_TX\_NB shall be initialized to 0.

The sequence of redundancy versions is 0, 2, 3, 1. The variable
CURRENT\_IRV is an index into the sequence of redundancy versions. This
variable is up-dated modulo 4.

The Sidelink process is configured with a maximum number of HARQ
retransmissions by RRC: *numRetx*.

If the Sidelink HARQ Entity requests a new transmission, the Sidelink
process shall:

\- set CURRENT\_TX\_NB to 0;

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to 0;

\- store the MAC PDU in the associated HARQ buffer;

\- store the grant received from the Sidelink HARQ Entity;

\- generate a transmission as described below.

If the Sidelink HARQ Entity requests a retransmission, the Sidelink
process shall:

\- increment CURRENT\_TX\_NB by 1;

\- generate a transmission as described below.

To generate a transmission, the Sidelink process shall:

\- if there is no uplink transmission, no transmission or reception on
PSCCH, and no transmission or reception on PSSCH at the time of the
transmission; or

\- if there is a Sidelink Discovery Gap for Transmission at the time of
transmission and if there is a MAC PDU to be transmitted in this TTI in
uplink, which is not obtained from the Msg3 buffer:

\- instruct the physical layer to generate a transmission according to
the grant with the redundancy version corresponding to the CURRENT\_IRV
value.

\- increment CURRENT\_IRV by 1.

After performing above actions, the Sidelink process then shall:

\- if CURRENT\_TX\_NB = *numRetx*:

\- flush the HARQ buffer.

### 5.15.2 SL-DCH data reception

#### 5.15.2.1 Sidelink HARQ operation

##### 5.15.2.1.1 Sidelink HARQ Entity

There is one Sidelink HARQ Entity at the MAC entity for reception on the
SL-DCH which maintains a number of parallel Sidelink processes. The
Sidelink HARQ Entity directs HARQ information and associated TBs
received on the SL-DCH to the corresponding Sidelink processes.

The number of receiving Sidelink processes per Sidelink HARQ Entity is
specified in TS 36.331 \[8\].

For each subframe of the SL-DCH, the Sidelink HARQ Entity shall:

\- receive the TB and the associated HARQ information from the physical
layer;

\- if this subframe corresponds to a new transmission opportunity:

\- allocate the received TB (if any) and the associated HARQ information
to a non-running Sidelink process and consider this transmission to be a
new transmission.

\- else, if this subframe corresponds to a retransmission opportunity:

\- allocate the received TB (if any) and the associated HARQ information
to its Sidelink process and consider this transmission to be a
retransmission.

##### 5.15.2.1.2 Sidelink process

For each subframe where a transmission takes place for the Sidelink
process, one TB and the associated HARQ information is received from the
Sidelink HARQ Entity.

The sequence of redundancy versions is 0, 2, 3, 1. The variable
CURRENT\_IRV is an index into the sequence of redundancy versions. This
variable is updated modulo 4.

The Sidelink process shall:

\- if this subframe corresponds to a new transmission opportunity:

\- set CURRENT\_IRV to 0;

\- else, if this subframe corresponds to a retransmission opportunity:

\- increment CURRENT\_IRV by 1.

\- if a TB was allocated to the Sidelink process:

\- if this is a new transmission:

\- optionally store the received data in the soft buffer and attempt to
decode the received data according to the CURRENT\_IRV.

\- else if this is a retransmission:

\- if the data for this TB has not yet been successfully decoded:

\- optionally combine the received data with the data currently in the
soft buffer for this TB and attempt to decode the combined data
according to the CURRENT\_IRV.

\- if the data which the MAC entity attempted to decode was successfully
decoded for this TB:

\- if this is the first successful decoding of the data for this TB:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to upper layers.

5.16 SL-BCH data transfer
-------------------------

### 5.16.1 SL-BCH data transmission

When instructed to send SL-BCH, the MAC entity shall:

\- obtain the MAC PDU to transmit from SBCCH;

\- deliver the MAC PDU to the physical layer and instruct it to generate
a transmission.

### 5.16.2 SL-BCH data reception

When the MAC entity needs to receive SL-BCH, the MAC entity shall:

\- receive and attempt to decode the SL-BCH;

\- if a TB on the SL-BCH has been successfully decoded:

\- deliver the decoded MAC PDU to upper layers.

5.17 Data inactivity monitoring
-------------------------------

The MAC entity may be configured by RRC with a Data inactivity
monitoring functionality, when in RRC\_CONNECTED. RRC controls Data
inactivity operation by configuring the timer *DataInactivityTimer*.

When *DataInactivityTimer* is configured, the MAC entity shall:

\- if the MAC entity receives the MAC SDU for DTCH logical channel ,
DCCH logical channel, or CCCH logical channel; or

\- if the MAC entity transmits the MAC SDU for DTCH logical channel,
DCCH logical channel;

\- start or restart *DataInactivityTimer*.

\- if *DataInactivityTimer* expires, indicate the expiry of
*DataInactivityTimer* to upper layers.

5.18 Recommended Bit Rate
-------------------------

The recommended bit rate procedure is used to provide the MAC entity
with information about the bit rate which the eNB recommends. The bit
rate is the *recommended* bit rate of the physical layer. Averaging
window of default value 2000 ms will apply, as specified in
TS 26.114 \[16\].

The eNB may transmit the Recommended bit rate MAC control element to the
MAC entity to indicate the recommended bit rate for the UE for a
specific logical channel and a specific direction (either uplink or
downlink). Upon reception of a Recommended bit rate MAC control element
the MAC entity shall:

\- indicate to upper layers the recommended bit rate for the indicated
logical channel and direction

The MAC entity may request the eNB to indicate the recommended bit rate
for a specific logical channel and a specific direction. If the MAC
entity is requested by upper layers to query the eNB for the recommended
bit rate for a logical channel and for a direction (i.e. for uplink or
downlink), the MAC entity shall:

\- if a Recommended bit rate query for this logical channel and this
direction has not been triggered:

\- trigger a Recommended bit rate query for this logical channel,
direction, and desired bit rate.

If the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for new transmission for
this TTI the MAC entity shall:

\- for each Recommended bit rate query that the Recommended Bit Rate
procedure determines has been triggered and not cancelled:

\- if *bitRateQueryProhibitTimer* for the logical channel and the
direction of this Recommended bit rate query is configured, and it is
not running; and

\- if the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for new transmission for
this TTI and the allocated UL resources can accommodate a Recommended
bit rate MAC control element plus its subheader as a result of logical
channel prioritization:

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate the
Recommended bit rate MAC control element for the logical channel and the
direction of this Recommended bit rate query;

\- start the *bitRateQueryProhibitTimer* for the logical channel and the
direction of this Recommended bit rate query

\- cancel this Recommended bit rate query.

5.19 Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources
------------------------------------------------

The network may activate and deactivate the configured CSI-RS resources
of a serving cell by sending the Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS
resources MAC control element described in clause 6.1.3.14. The
configured CSI-RS resources are initially deactivated upon configuration
and after a handover.

The MAC entity shall for each TTI:

\- if the MAC entity receives an Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS
resources MAC control element in this TTI on a serving cell, the MAC
entity shall indicate to lower layers the information regarding the
Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources MAC control element:

5.20 Preallocated uplink grant
------------------------------

When the preallocated uplink grant is configured by RRC, the following
information is provided in *ul-ConfigInfo*:

\- Uplink Scheduling interval *ul-SchedInterval*, starting subframe
*ul-StartSubframe* of the preallocated uplink grant, the uplink grant
*ul-Grant* and the number of HARQ process for the preallocated uplink
grant *numberOfConfUL-Processes*.

When the preallocated uplink grant configuration is released by RRC, the
corresponding preallocated uplink grant shall be discarded.

NOTE 1: When eIMTA is configured for the SpCell, if a preallocated grant
occurs in a subframe that can be reconfigured through eIMTA L1
signalling, then the UE behaviour is left unspecified.

If *ul-ConfigInfo* is configured, the MAC entity shall:

\- consider sequentially that the N^th^ grant occurs in the subframe for
which:

\- subframe = \[N \* *ul-SchedInterval* + *ul-StartSubframe*\] modulo
10.

For TDD, the MAC entity is configured with *ul-SchedInterval* shorter
than 10 subframes, the N^th^ grant shall be ignored if it occurs in a
downlink subframe or a special subframe.

NOTE 2: Retransmissions for uplink transmissions using the preallocated
uplink grant can continue after clearing the preallocated uplink grant.

5.21 SC-PTM Stop Indication
---------------------------

For NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, the eNB may transmit
the SC-PTM Stop Indication MAC control element to the MAC entity to
indicate that the transmission of SC-MTCH associated with a G-RNTI is
stopped as described in clause 6.1.3.12.

Upon reception of the SC-PTM Stop Indication MAC control element
associated with a G-RNTI, the MAC entity shall:

\- stop monitoring the PDCCH for this G-RNTI;

\- indicate to upper layers that the associated MBMS session is stopped.

5.22 Entering Dormant SCell state
---------------------------------

If the MAC entity is configured with one or more SCells, the network may
transition configured SCells into Dormant State. Dormant State is not
applicable for SpCell or PUCCH SCell. The network transitions SCell(s)
in and out of Dormant State by sending Activation/Deactivation and/or
Hibernation MAC control element as described in clause 6.1.3.8 and
6.1.3.15 respectively.

Furthermore, the MAC entity maintains two timers related to the dormant
state:

\- If configured, an *sCellHibernationTimer* timer per configured SCell
(except the SCell configured with PUCCH, if any). Upon the timer expiry,
the MAC entity hibernates the associated SCell if it is in activated
state. The same initial timer value applies to each instance of the
*sCellHibernationTimer* and it is configured by RRC.

\- If configured, a *dormantSCellDeactivationTimer* per configured SCell
(except the SCell configured with PUCCH, if any). Upon the timer expiry,
the MAC entity deactivates the associated SCell if it is in dormant
state. The same initial timer value applies to each instance of the
*dormantSCellDeactivationTimer* and it is configured by RRC.

An SCell will be in Dormant SCell state upon SCell configuration in case
the parameter *sCellState* is set to *dormant* for the SCell within RRC
configuration. The configured SCG SCells are dormant after a SCG change
in case the parameter *sCellState* is set to *dormant* for the SCell
within RRC configuration.

The MAC entity shall for each TTI and for each configured SCell:

\- if the MAC entity is configured with dormant SCell upon SCell
configuration or receives MAC control element(s) in this TTI for
transitioning the SCell into Dormant State:

\- in the TTI according to the timing defined in TS 36.213 \[2\]:

\- transition the SCell into Dormant State;

\- stop the *sCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- if *sCellHibernationTimer* associated with the SCell is configured;

\- stop the *sCellHibernationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- start or restart the *dormantSCellDeactivationTimer* associated with
the SCell;

\- clear any configured downlink assignments and uplink grants
associated with the SCell;

\- flush all HARQ buffers associated with the SCell.

\- if the *sCellHibernationTimer* associated with the activated SCell
expires in this TTI:

\- in the TTI according to the timing defined in TS 36.213 \[2\]:

\- hibernate the SCell;

\- stop the *sCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- stop the *sCellHibernationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- start the *dormantSCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- clear any configured downlink assignments and uplink grants
associated with the SCell;

\- flush all HARQ buffers associated with the SCell.

\- if the *dormantSCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the dormant
SCell expires in this TTI:

\- in the TTI according to the timing defined in TS 36.213 \[2\]:

\- deactivate the SCell;

\- stop the *dormantSCellDeactivationTimer* associated with the SCell;

\- if the SCell is in Dormant State:

\- not transmit SRS on the SCell;

\- report CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI for the SCell according to the periodicity
indicated by *cqi-ReportPeriodic-SCell-r15*;

\- not transmit on UL-SCH on the SCell;

\- not transmit on RACH on the SCell;

\- not monitor the PDCCH on the SCell;

\- not monitor the PDCCH for the SCell;

\- not transmit PUCCH on the SCell.

HARQ feedback for the MAC PDU containing Hibernation MAC control element
shall not be impacted by PCell, PSCell and PUCCH SCell interruptions due
to SCell activation/deactivation or hibernation (TS 36.133 \[9\]).

NOTE: When SCell is in Dormant State, any ongoing Random Access
procedure on the SCell is aborted.

5.23 Autonomous Uplink
----------------------

Autonomous uplink is supported on the SCells only. At most one
autonomous uplink configuration is supported per SCell. Multiple
autonomous uplink configurations can be activated and be active
simultaneously when there is more than one SCell. Autonomous uplink and
Uplink Semi-Persistent Scheduling cannot be active simultaneously on the
same SCell.

When autonomous uplink is configured by RRC, the following information
is provided in *AUL-Config* (TS 36.331 \[8\]):

\- AUL C-RNTI;

\- HARQ process IDs *aul-HARQ-Processes* that are configured for
autonomous UL HARQ operation, the time period *aul-RetransmissionTimer*
before triggering a new transmission or a retransmission of the same
HARQ process using autonomous uplink;

\- The bitmap *aul-Subframes* that indicates the subframes that are
configured for autonomous UL HARQ operation.

When the autonomous uplink configuration is released by RRC, the
corresponding configured grant shall be cleared.

If *AUL-Config* is configured, the MAC entity shall:

\- consider that a configured uplink grant occurs in those subframes for
which *aul-Subframes* is set to 1 (TS 36.331 \[8\]).

If AUL confirmation has been triggered and not cancelled:

\- if the MAC entity has UL resources allocated for new transmission for
this TTI:

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate an AUL
confirmation MAC Control Element as defined in clause 6.1.3.16;

\- cancel the triggered AUL confirmation.

The MAC entity shall clear the configured uplink grant for the SCell
immediately after first transmission of AUL confirmation MAC Control
Element triggered by the AUL release for this SCell.

NOTE: Retransmissions for uplink transmissions using autonomous uplink
can continue after clearing the corresponding configured uplink grant.

5.24 Activation/Deactivation of PDCP duplication
------------------------------------------------

If one or more DRBs are configured with PDCP duplication, the network
may activate and deactivate the PDCP duplication for the configured
DRB(s) by sending the PDCP Duplication Activation/Deactivation MAC CE
described in clause 6.1.3.17. In addition, PDCP duplication for DRB(s)
may be activated upon configuration by upper layers (TS 36.331 \[8\]).

Upon reception of a PDCP Duplication Activation/Deactivation MAC CE, the
MAC entity shall for each DRB configured with duplication:

\- if the MAC CE indicates that PDCP duplication for the DRB shall be
activated:

\- indicate the activation of PDCP duplication for the DRB to upper
layers.

\- if the MAC CE indicates that PDCP duplication for the DRB shall be
deactivated:

\- indicate the deactivation of PDCP duplication for the DRB to upper
layers.

5.25 Transmission of Downlink Channel Quality Report
----------------------------------------------------

The MAC entity of a BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage may be configured
by upper layers to report DL channel quality in Msg3. DL channel quality
in Msg3 in RRC\_CONNECTED is not reported.

If the UE is a BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage or an NB-IoT UE, a
Downlink Channel Quality Report (DCQR) shall be triggered if any of the
following events occur:

\- DCQR Command MAC control element is received, in which case the DCQR
is referred below to as \"Regular DCQR\";

\- for BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage, transmission of DCQR in Msg3 is
configured by upper layers in *mpdcch-CQI-Reporting*, in which case DCQR
is referred below to as \"Msg3 DCQR\".

If any type of DCQR has been triggered:

\- start performing DL channel quality measurements according to TS
36.133 \[9\].

If \"Regular DCQR\" has been triggered:

\- if an uplink grant has been received on the PDCCH for MAC entity\'s
C-RNTI:

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate a DCQR
and AS RAI MAC control element as defined in clause 6.1.3.19;

\- cancel the triggered \"Regular DCQR\".

If \"Msg3 DCQR\" has been triggered:

\- if an uplink grant has been received on the PDCCH for MAC entity\'s
RA-RNTI:

\- if the allocated resources can accommodate a DCQR and AS RAI MAC
control element plus its subheader as a result of logical channel
prioritization:

\- instruct the Multiplexing and Assembly procedure to generate a DCQR
and AS RAI MAC control element as defined in clause 6.1.3.19;

\- else if the uplink grant is not for EDT:

\- if configured by upper layers in *mpdcch-CQI-Reporting*, use R and F2
fields in the MAC PDU subheader, to transmit the measurement outcome, as
defined in clause 6.2.1;

\- cancel the triggered \"Msg3 DCQR\".

6 Protocol Data Units, formats and parameters
=============================================

6.1 Protocol Data Units
-----------------------

### 6.1.1 General

A MAC PDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits)
in length. In the figures in clause 6.1, bit strings are represented by
tables in which the most significant bit is the leftmost bit of the
first line of the table, the least significant bit is the rightmost bit
on the last line of the table, and more generally the bit string is to
be read from left to right and then in the reading order of the lines.
The bit order of each parameter field within a MAC PDU is represented
with the first and most significant bit in the leftmost bit and the last
and least significant bit in the rightmost bit.

MAC SDUs are bit strings that are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits)
in length. An SDU is included into a MAC PDU from the first bit onward.

The MAC entity shall ignore the value of Reserved bits in downlink MAC
PDUs and in MAC PDUs received in sidelink.

### 6.1.2 MAC PDU (DL-SCH and UL-SCH except transparent MAC and Random Access Response, MCH)

A MAC PDU consists of a MAC header, zero or more MAC Service Data Units
(MAC SDU), zero, or more MAC control elements, and optionally padding;
as described in Figure 6.1.2-3.

Both the MAC header and the MAC SDUs are of variable sizes.

A MAC PDU header consists of one or more MAC PDU subheaders; each
subheader corresponds to either a MAC SDU, a MAC control element or
padding.

A MAC PDU subheader consists of the header fields
R/F2/E/LCID/(R/R/eLCID)/(F)/(L). The L field is present in the MAC PDU
subheader except for the last subheader in the MAC PDU and fixed sized
MAC control elements. The last subheader in the MAC PDU and subheaders
for fixed sized MAC control elements consist of the header fields
R/F2/E/LCID/(R/R/eLCID). A MAC PDU subheader corresponding to padding
consists of the four header fields R/F2/E/LCID.

Figure 6.1.2-1: R/F2/E/LCID/(R/R/eLCID)/F/L MAC subheader with 7-bits
and 15-bits L field

Figure 6.1.2-1a: R/F2/E/LCID/(R/R/eLCID)/L MAC subheader with 16-bits L
field

Figure 6.1.2-2: R/F2/E/LCID/(R/R/eLCID) MAC subheader

MAC PDU subheaders have the same order as the corresponding MAC SDUs,
MAC control elements and padding.

MAC control elements are always placed before any MAC SDU.

Padding occurs at the end of the MAC PDU, except when single-byte or
two-byte padding is required. Padding may have any value and the MAC
entity shall ignore it. When padding is performed at the end of the MAC
PDU, zero or more padding bytes are allowed.

When single-byte or two-byte padding is required, one or two MAC PDU
subheaders corresponding to padding are placed at the beginning of the
MAC PDU before any other MAC PDU subheader.

A maximum of one MAC PDU can be transmitted per TB per MAC entity. A
maximum of one MCH MAC PDU can be transmitted per TTI.

Figure 6.1.2-3: Example of MAC PDU consisting of MAC header, MAC control
elements, MAC SDUs and padding

### 6.1.3 MAC Control Elements

#### 6.1.3.1 Buffer Status Report MAC Control Elements

Buffer Status Report (BSR) MAC control elements consist of either:

\- Short BSR and Truncated BSR format: one LCG ID field and one
corresponding Buffer Size field (figure 6.1.3.1-1); or

\- Long BSR format: four Buffer Size fields, corresponding to LCG IDs
\#0 through \#3 (figure 6.1.3.1-2).

The BSR formats are identified by MAC PDU subheaders with LCIDs as
specified in table 6.2.1-2.

The fields LCG ID and Buffer Size are defined as follow:

\- LCG ID: The Logical Channel Group ID field identifies the group of
logical channel(s) which buffer status is being reported. The length of
the field is 2 bits. For NB-IoT, the LCG ID is set to \#0.

\- Buffer Size: The Buffer Size field identifies the total amount of
data available across all logical channels of a logical channel group
after all MAC PDUs for the TTI have been built. The amount of data is
indicated in number of bytes. It shall include all data that is
available for transmission in the RLC layer and in the PDCP layer; the
definition of what data shall be considered as available for
transmission is specified in TS 36.322 \[3\] and TS 36.323 \[4\] or
TS 38.323 \[17\] respectively. The size of the RLC and MAC headers are
not considered in the buffer size computation. The length of this field
is 6 bits. If *extendedBSR-Sizes* is not configured, the values taken by
the Buffer Size field are shown in Table 6.1.3.1-1. If
*extendedBSR-Sizes* is configured, the values taken by the Buffer Size
field are shown in Table 6.1.3.1-2.

Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Short BSR and Truncated BSR MAC control element

Figure 6.1.3.1-2: Long BSR MAC control element

Table 6.1.3.1-1: Buffer size levels for BSR

  **Index**   **Buffer Size (BS) value \[bytes\]**   **Index**   **Buffer Size (BS) value \[bytes\]**
  ----------- -------------------------------------- ----------- --------------------------------------
  0           BS = 0                                 32          1132 \< BS \<= 1326
  1           0 \< BS \<= 10                         33          1326 \< BS \<= 1552
  2           10 \< BS \<= 12                        34          1552 \< BS \<= 1817
  3           12 \< BS \<= 14                        35          1817 \< BS \<= 2127
  4           14 \< BS \<= 17                        36          2127 \< BS \<= 2490
  5           17 \< BS \<= 19                        37          2490 \< BS \<= 2915
  6           19 \< BS \<= 22                        38          2915 \< BS \<= 3413
  7           22 \< BS \<= 26                        39          3413 \< BS \<= 3995
  8           26 \< BS \<= 31                        40          3995 \< BS \<= 4677
  9           31 \< BS \<= 36                        41          4677 \< BS \<= 5476
  10          36 \< BS \<= 42                        42          5476 \< BS \<= 6411
  11          42 \< BS \<= 49                        43          6411 \< BS \<= 7505
  12          49 \< BS \<= 57                        44          7505 \< BS \<= 8787
  13          57 \< BS \<= 67                        45          8787 \< BS \<= 10287
  14          67 \< BS \<= 78                        46          10287 \< BS \<= 12043
  15          78 \< BS \<= 91                        47          12043 \< BS \<= 14099
  16          91 \< BS \<= 107                       48          14099 \< BS \<= 16507
  17          107 \< BS \<= 125                      49          16507 \< BS \<= 19325
  18          125 \< BS \<= 146                      50          19325 \< BS \<= 22624
  19          146 \< BS \<= 171                      51          22624 \< BS \<= 26487
  20          171 \< BS \<= 200                      52          26487 \< BS \<= 31009
  21          200 \< BS \<= 234                      53          31009 \< BS \<= 36304
  22          234 \< BS \<= 274                      54          36304 \< BS \<= 42502
  23          274 \< BS \<= 321                      55          42502 \< BS \<= 49759
  24          321 \< BS \<= 376                      56          49759 \< BS \<= 58255
  25          376 \< BS \<= 440                      57          58255 \< BS \<= 68201
  26          440 \< BS \<= 515                      58          68201 \< BS \<= 79846
  27          515 \< BS \<= 603                      59          79846 \< BS \<= 93479
  28          603 \< BS \<= 706                      60          93479 \< BS \<= 109439
  29          706 \< BS \<= 826                      61          109439 \< BS \<= 128125
  30          826 \< BS \<= 967                      62          128125 \< BS \<= 150000
  31          967 \< BS \<=1132                      63          BS \> 150000

Table 6.1.3.1-2: Extended Buffer size levels for BSR

  **Index**   **Buffer Size (BS) value \[bytes\]**   **Index**   **Buffer Size (BS) value \[bytes\]**
  ----------- -------------------------------------- ----------- --------------------------------------
  0           BS = 0                                 32          4940 \< BS \<= 6074
  1           0 \< BS \<= 10                         33          6074 \< BS \<= 7469
  2           10 \< BS \<= 13                        34          7469 \< BS \<= 9185
  3           13 \< BS \<= 16                        35          9185 \< BS \<= 11294
  4           16 \< BS \<= 19                        36          11294 \< BS \<= 13888
  5           19 \< BS \<= 23                        37          13888 \< BS \<= 17077
  6           23 \< BS \<= 29                        38          17077 \< BS \<= 20999
  7           29 \< BS \<= 35                        39          20999 \< BS \<= 25822
  8           35 \< BS \<= 43                        40          25822 \< BS \<= 31752
  9           43 \< BS \<= 53                        41          31752 \< BS \<= 39045
  10          53 \< BS \<= 65                        42          39045 \< BS \<= 48012
  11          65 \< BS \<= 80                        43          48012 \< BS \<= 59039
  12          80 \< BS \<= 98                        44          59039 \< BS \<= 72598
  13          98 \< BS \<= 120                       45          72598 \< BS \<= 89272
  14          120 \< BS \<= 147                      46          89272 \< BS \<= 109774
  15          147 \< BS \<= 181                      47          109774 \< BS \<= 134986
  16          181 \< BS \<= 223                      48          134986 \< BS \<= 165989
  17          223 \< BS \<= 274                      49          165989 \< BS \<= 204111
  18          274 \< BS \<= 337                      50          204111 \< BS \<= 250990
  19          337 \< BS \<= 414                      51          250990 \< BS \<= 308634
  20          414 \< BS \<= 509                      52          308634 \< BS \<= 379519
  21          509 \< BS \<= 625                      53          379519 \< BS \<= 466683
  22          625 \< BS \<= 769                      54          466683 \< BS \<= 573866
  23          769 \< BS \<= 945                      55          573866 \< BS \<= 705666
  24          945 \< BS \<= 1162                     56          705666 \< BS \<= 867737
  25          1162 \< BS \<= 1429                    57          867737 \< BS \<= 1067031
  26          1429 \< BS \<= 1757                    58          1067031 \< BS \<= 1312097
  27          1757 \< BS \<= 2161                    59          1312097 \< BS \<= 1613447
  28          2161 \< BS \<= 2657                    60          1613447 \< BS \<= 1984009
  29          2657 \< BS \<= 3267                    61          1984009 \< BS \<= 2439678
  30          3267 \< BS \<= 4017                    62          2439678 \< BS \<= 3000000
  31          4017 \< BS \<=4940                     63          BS \> 3000000

#### 6.1.3.1a Sidelink BSR MAC Control Elements

Sidelink BSR and Truncated Sidelink BSR MAC control elements consist of
one Destination Index field, one LCG ID field and one corresponding
Buffer Size field per reported target group.

The Sidelink BSR MAC control elements are identified by MAC PDU
subheaders with LCIDs as specified in table 6.2.1-2. They have variable
sizes.

For each included group, the fields are defined as follows (figures
6.1.3.1a-1 and 6.1.3.1a-2):

\- Destination Index: The Destination Index field identifies the ProSe
Destination or the destination for V2X sidelink communication. The
length of this field is 4 bits. The value is set to the index of the
destination reported in *destinationInfoList* for sidelink communication
or is set to one index among index(es) associated to same destination
reported in *v2x-DestinationInfoList* for V2X sidelink communication. If
multiple such lists are reported, the value is indexed sequentially
across all the lists in the same order as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\];

\- LCG ID: The Logical Channel Group ID field identifies the group of
logical channel(s) which buffer status is being reported. The length of
the field is 2 bits;

\- Buffer Size: The Buffer Size field identifies the total amount of
data available across all logical channels of a LCG of a ProSe
Destination after all MAC PDUs for the TTI have been built. The amount
of data is indicated in number of bytes. It shall include all data that
is available for transmission in the RLC layer and in the PDCP layer;
the definition of what data shall be considered as available for
transmission is specified in TS 36.322 \[3\] and TS 36.323 \[4\]
respectively. The size of the RLC and MAC headers are not considered in
the buffer size computation. The length of this field is 6 bits. The
values taken by the Buffer Size field are shown in Table 6.1.3.1-1;

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\".

Buffer Sizes of LCGs are included in decreasing order of the highest
priority of the sidelink logical channel belonging to the LCG
irrespective of the value of the Destination Index field.

Figure 6.1.3.1a-1: Sidelink BSR and Truncated Sidelink BSR MAC control
element for even N

Figure 6.1.3.1a-2: Sidelink BSR and Truncated Sidelink BSR MAC control
element for odd N

#### 6.1.3.2 C-RNTI MAC Control Element

The C-RNTI MAC control element is identified by MAC PDU subheader with
LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-2.

It has a fixed size and consists of a single field defined as follows
(figure 6.1.3.2-1):

\- C-RNTI: This field contains the C-RNTI of the MAC entity. The length
of the field is 16 bits.

Figure 6.1.3.2-1: C-RNTI MAC control element

#### 6.1.3.3 DRX Command MAC Control Element

The DRX Command MAC control element is identified by a MAC PDU subheader
with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-1.

It has a fixed size of zero bits.

#### 6.1.3.4 UE Contention Resolution Identity MAC Control Element

The UE Contention Resolution Identity MAC control element is identified
by MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-1. This
control element has a fixed 48-bit size and consists of a single field
defined as follows (figure 6.1.3.4-1)

\- UE Contention Resolution Identity: If this MAC control element is
included in response to an uplink CCCH transmission, then this field
contains the uplink CCCH SDU if the uplink CCCH SDU is 48 bits long. If
the CCCH SDU is longer than 48 bits, this field contains the first 48
bits of the uplink CCCH SDU. If this MAC control element is included in
response to an uplink DCCH transmission (i.e. the MAC entity is
configured with *rach-Skip* or *rach-SkipSCG*), then the MAC entity
shall ignore the contents of this field.

Figure 6.1.3.4-1: UE Contention Resolution Identity MAC control element

#### 6.1.3.5 Timing Advance Command MAC Control Element

The Timing Advance Command MAC control element is identified by MAC PDU
subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-1.

It has a fixed size and consists of a single octet defined as follows
(figure 6.1.3.5-1):

\- TAG Identity (TAG Id): This field indicates the TAG Identity of the
addressed TAG. The TAG containing the SpCell has the TAG Identity 0. The
length of the field is 2 bits;

\- Timing Advance Command: This field indicates the index value *T~A~*
(0, 1, 2... 63) used to control the amount of timing adjustment that MAC
entity has to apply (see clause 4.2.3 of TS 36.213 \[2\]). The length of
the field is 6 bits.

Figure 6.1.3.5-1: Timing Advance Command MAC control element

#### 6.1.3.6 Power Headroom Report MAC Control Element

The Power Headroom Report (PHR) MAC control element is identified by a
MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-2. It has a
fixed size and consists of a single octet defined as follows (figure
6.1.3.6-1):

\- R: reserved bit, set to \"0\";

\- Power Headroom (PH): this field indicates the power headroom level.
The length of the field is 6 bits. The reported PH and the corresponding
power headroom levels are shown in Table 6.1.3.6-1 below (the
corresponding measured values in dB can be found in clause 9.1.8.4 of
TS 36.133 \[9\]).

Figure 6.1.3.6-1: PHR MAC control element

Table 6.1.3.6-1: Power Headroom levels for PHR

  ----- ----------------------
  PH    Power Headroom Level
  0     POWER\_HEADROOM\_0
  1     POWER\_HEADROOM\_1
  2     POWER\_HEADROOM\_2
  3     POWER\_HEADROOM\_3
  ...   ...
  60    POWER\_HEADROOM\_60
  61    POWER\_HEADROOM\_61
  62    POWER\_HEADROOM\_62
  63    POWER\_HEADROOM\_63
  ----- ----------------------

#### 6.1.3.6a Extended Power Headroom Report MAC Control Elements

For *extendedPHR*, the Extended Power Headroom Report (PHR) MAC control
element is identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in
table 6.2.1-2. It has a variable size and is defined in Figure
6.1.3.6a-2. When Type 2 PH is reported, the octet containing the Type 2
PH field is included first after the octet indicating the presence of PH
per SCell and followed by an octet containing the associated P~CMAX,c~
field (if reported). Then follows an octet with the Type 1 PH field and
an octet with the associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported), for the
PCell. If *SRS-ConfigAdd-r16* is configured for the PCell then follows
an octet with the Type 3 PH field and an octet with the associated
P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported), for the PCell. And then follows in
ascending order based on the *ServCellIndex*, as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\] an octet with the Type x PH field, wherein x is equal to
3 when the *ul-Configuration-r14* or *SRS-ConfigAdd-r16* is configured
for this SCell, x is equal to 1 otherwise, and an octet with the
associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported), for each SCell indicated in
the bitmap.

For *extendedPHR2*, the Extended Power Headroom Report (PHR) MAC control
elements are identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in
table 6.2.1-2. They have variable sizes and are defined in Figure
6.1.3.6a1-3, Figure 6.1.3.6a2-4 and Figure 6.1.3.6a3-5. One octet with C
fields is used for indicating the presence of PH per SCell when the
highest *SCellIndex* of SCell with configured uplink is less than 8,
otherwise four octets are used. When Type 2 PH is reported for the
PCell, the octet containing the Type 2 PH field is included first after
the octet(s) indicating the presence of PH per SCell and followed by an
octet containing the associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported). Then
follows the Type 2 PH field for the PUCCH SCell (if PUCCH on SCell is
configured and Type 2 PH is reported for the PUCCH SCell), followed by
an octet containing the associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported). Then
follows an octet with the Type 1 PH field and an octet with the
associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported), for the PCell. If
*SRS-ConfigAdd-r16* is configured for the PCell then follows an octet
with the Type 3 PH field and an octet with the associated P~CMAX,c~
field (if reported), for the PCell. Then follows in ascending order
based on the *ServCellIndex*, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\] an octet
with the Type x PH field, wherein, x is equal to 3 when the
*ul-Configuration-r14* or *SRS-ConfigAdd-r16* is configured for this
SCell, x is equal to 1 otherwise, and an octet with the associated
P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported), for each SCell indicated in the bitmap.

The Extended PHR MAC Control Elements are defined as follows:

\- C~i~: this field indicates the presence of a PH field for the SCell
with *SCellIndex* i as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\]. The C~i~ field set
to \"1\" indicates that a PH field for the SCell with *SCellIndex* i is
reported. The C~i~ field set to \"0\" indicates that a PH field for the
SCell with *SCellIndex* i is not reported;

\- R: reserved bit, set to \"0\";

\- V: this field indicates if the PH value is based on a real
transmission or a reference format. For Type 1 PH, V=0 indicates real
transmission on PUSCH and V=1 indicates that a PUSCH reference format is
used. For Type 2 PH, V=0 indicates real transmission on PUCCH/SPUCCH and
V=1 indicates that a PUCCH/SPUCCH reference format is used. For Type 3
PH, V=0 indicates real transmission on SRS and V=1 indicates that an SRS
reference format is used. Furthermore, for Type 1, Type 2 and Type 3 PH,
V=0 indicates the presence of the octet containing the associated
P~CMAX,c~ field, and V=1 indicates that the octet containing the
associated P~CMAX,c~ field is omitted;

\- Power Headroom (PH): this field indicates the power headroom level.
The length of the field is 6 bits. The reported PH and the corresponding
power headroom levels are shown in Table 6.1.3.6-1 (the corresponding
measured values in dB can be found in clause 9.1.8.4 of
TS 36.133 \[9\]);

\- P: this field indicates whether the MAC entity applies power backoff
due to power management (as allowed by P-MPR~c~, see TS 36.101 \[10\]).
The MAC entity shall set P=1 if the corresponding P~CMAX,c~ field would
have had a different value if no power backoff due to power management
had been applied;

\- P~CMAX,c~: if present, this field indicates the P~CMAX,c~ or , as
specified in TS 36.213 \[2\] used for calculation of the preceding PH
field. The reported P~CMAX,c~ and the corresponding nominal UE transmit
power levels are shown in Table 6.1.3.6a-1 (the corresponding measured
values in dBm can be found in clause 9.6.1 of TS 36.133 \[9\]).

Figure 6.1.3.6a-1: Void

Figure 6.1.3.6a-2: Extended PHR MAC Control Element

Figure 6.1.3.6a1-3: Extended PHR MAC Control Element supporting PUCCH on
SCell

Figure 6.1.3.6a2-4: Extended PHR MAC Control Element supporting 32
serving cells with configured uplink

Figure 6.1.3.6a3-5: Extended PHR MAC Control Element supporting 32
serving cells with configured uplink and PUCCH on SCell

Table 6.1.3.6a-1: Nominal UE transmit power level for Extended PHR and
for Dual Connectivity PHR

+-----------+---------------------------------+
| P~CMAX,c~ | Nominal UE transmit power level |
+-----------+---------------------------------+
| 0         | > PCMAX\_C\_00                  |
+-----------+---------------------------------+
| 1         | > PCMAX\_C\_01                  |
+-----------+---------------------------------+
| 2         | > PCMAX\_C\_02                  |
+-----------+---------------------------------+
| ...       | ...                             |
+-----------+---------------------------------+
| 61        | > PCMAX\_C\_61                  |
+-----------+---------------------------------+
| 62        | > PCMAX\_C\_62                  |
+-----------+---------------------------------+
| 63        | > PCMAX\_C\_63                  |
+-----------+---------------------------------+

#### 6.1.3.6b Dual Connectivity Power Headroom Report MAC Control Element

The Dual Connectivity Power Headroom Report (PHR) MAC control element is
identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table
6.2.1-2. It has a variable size and is defined in Figure 6.1.3.6b-1 and
Figure 6.1.3.6b-2. One octet with C~i~ fields is used for indicating the
presence of PH per serving cell other than PCell, when the highest
*SCellIndex* of SCell with configured uplink is less than 8, otherwise
four octets are used. In case EN-DC, NE-DC or NGEN-DC is configured,
four octets with C~i~ fields is always used. When Type 2 PH is reported
for the PCell, the octet containing the Type 2 PH field is included
first after the octet(s) indicating the presence of PH per cell (PSCell
and all SCells of all MAC entities) and followed by an octet containing
the associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported). Then after that, when Type
2 PH is reported for the PSCell, the octet containing the Type 2 PH
field is included followed by an octet containing the associated
P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported). Then follows an octet with the Type 1 PH
field and an octet with the associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported),
for the PCell. If *SRS-ConfigAdd-r16* is configured for the PCell then
follows an octet with the Type 3 PH field and an octet with the
associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported), for the PCell. And then
follows in ascending order based on the *ServCellIndex*, as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\], an octet with the Type x PH field, wherein x is either
1 or 3 according to TS 36.213 \[2\] and TS 38.213 \[18\] and an octet
with the associated P~CMAX,c~ field (if reported), for all serving cells
of all MAC entities indicated in the bitmap. In case of EN-DC and
NGEN-DC, for serving cells in the other MAC entity in which the UE does
not support dynamic power sharing or dynamic power sharing is not
applicable (clause 4.2.7.9, TS 38.306 \[22\]), the UE may omit the
octets containing Power Headroom field and P~CMAX,c~ field for those
serving cells. In case of NE-DC, for serving cells in the other MAC
entity in which the UE does not support dynamic power sharing or dynamic
power sharing is not applicable, the UE may omit the octets containing
Power Headroom field and P~CMAX,f,c~ field for those serving cells
except for the PCell in the other MAC entity and the reported values of
Power Headroom and P~CMAX,f,c~ for the PCell are up to UE
implementation.

The Dual Connectivity PHR MAC Control Element is defined as follows:

\- C~i~: this field indicates the presence of a PH field for the serving
cell of any MAC entity, except the PCell, with *ServCellIndex* (for
EN-DC, NE-DC or NGEN-DC case) or *SCellIndex* i as specified in
TS 36.331 \[8\]. The C~i~ field set to \"1\" indicates that a PH field
for the serving cell with *ServCellIndex* (for EN-DC, NE-DC or NGEN-DC
case) or *SCellIndex* i is reported. The C~i~ field set to \"0\"
indicates that a PH field for the serving cell with *ServCellIndex* (for
EN-DC, NE-DC or NGEN-DC case) or *SCellIndex* i is not reported;

\- R: reserved bit, set to \"0\";

\- V: this field indicates if the PH value is based on a real
transmission or a reference format. For Type 1 PH, V=0 indicates real
transmission on PUSCH and V=1 indicates that a PUSCH reference format is
used. For Type 2 PH, V=0 indicates real transmission on PUCCH and V=1
indicates that a PUCCH reference format is used. For Type 3 PH, V=0
indicates real transmission on SRS and V=1 indicates that an SRS
reference format is used. Furthermore, for Type 1 ,Type 2 and Type 3 PH,
V=0 indicates the presence of the octet containing the associated
P~CMAX,c~ field, and V=1 indicates that the octet containing the
associated P~CMAX,c~ field is omitted. Whether the reported PH value for
an activated NR Serving Cell is based on real transmission or a
reference format is determined based on UL transmissions that have been
scheduled or configured until 4 ms prior to the TTI in which this PHR
MAC CE is transmitted;

\- Power Headroom (PH): this field indicates the power headroom level.
The length of the field is 6 bits. The reported PH and the corresponding
power headroom levels are shown in Table 6.1.3.6-1 (the corresponding
measured values in dB for the E-UTRA Serving Cell are specified in
clause 9.1.8.4 of TS 36.133 \[9\] while the corresponding measured
values in dB for the NR Serving Cell are specified in TS 38.133 \[19\]);

\- P: this field indicates whether power backoff due to power management
is applied (as allowed by P-MPR~c~, see TS 36.101 \[10\] and TS 38.101-3
\[21\]). The MAC entity shall set P=1 if the corresponding P~CMAX,c~
field would have had a different value if no power backoff due to power
management had been applied;

\- P~CMAX,c~: if present, this field indicates the P~CMAX,c~ or , as
specified in TS 36.213 \[2\] for the E-UTRA Serving Cell and the
P~CMAX,f,c~ or P̃~CMAX,f,c~, as specified in TS 38.213 \[18\]) for the NR
Serving Cell used for calculation of the preceding PH field. The
reported P~CMAX,c~ and the corresponding nominal UE transmit power
levels are shown in Table 6.1.3.6a-1 (the corresponding measured values
in dBm for the E-UTRA Serving Cell can be found in TS 36.133 \[9\] while
the corresponding measured values in dBm for the NR Serving Cell can be
found in TS 38.133 \[19\]).

Figure 6.1.3.6b-1: Dual Connectivity PHR MAC Control Element

Figure 6.1.3.6b-2: Dual Connectivity PHR MAC Control Element supporting
32 serving cells with configured uplink

#### 6.1.3.7 MCH Scheduling Information MAC Control Element

The MCH Scheduling Information MAC Control Element illustrated in Figure
6.1.3.7-1 is identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in
Table 6.2.1-4. This control element has a variable size. For each MTCH
the fields below are included:

\- LCID: this field indicates the Logical Channel ID of the MTCH. The
length of the field is 5 bits;

\- Stop MTCH: this field indicates the ordinal number of the subframe
within the MCH scheduling period, counting only the subframes allocated
to the MCH, where the corresponding MTCH stops. Value 0 corresponds to
the first subframe. The length of the field is 11 bits. The special Stop
MTCH value 2047 indicates that the corresponding MTCH is not scheduled.
The value range 2043 to 2046 is reserved.

Figure 6.1.3.7-1: MCH Scheduling Information MAC control element

#### 6.1.3.7a Extended MCH Scheduling Information MAC Control Element

The Extended MCH Scheduling Information MAC control element illustrated
in Figure 6.1.3.7-2 is identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as
specified in Table 6.2.1-4. This control element has a variable size.

For each MTCH the fields below are included:

\- LCID: this field indicates the Logical Channel ID of the MTCH. The
length of the field is 5 bits;

\- Stop MTCH: this field indicates the ordinal number of the subframe
within the MCH scheduling period, counting only the subframes allocated
to the MCH, where the corresponding MTCH stops. Value 0 corresponds to
the first subframe. The length of the field is 11 bits. The special Stop
MTCH value 2047 indicates that the corresponding MTCH is not scheduled.
The value range 2043 to 2046 is reserved.

For each MTCH the fields below may be included:

\- LCID: this field indicates the Logical Channel ID of the MTCH. The
length of the field is 5 bits. LCIDs x...x+y shall be equal to or a
subset of the LCIDs 1...n;

\- S: this field indicates that the transmission of the corresponding
MTCH is to be suspended. The S field is set to 000. All other values are
reserved.

Figure 6.1.3.7a-1: Extended MCH Scheduling Information MAC control
element

#### 6.1.3.8 Activation/Deactivation MAC Control Elements

The Activation/Deactivation MAC control element of one octet is
identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table
6.2.1-1. It has a fixed size and consists of a single octet containing
seven C-fields and one R-field. The Activation/Deactivation MAC control
element with one octet is defined as follows (figure 6.1.3.8-1).

The Activation/Deactivation MAC control element of four octets is
identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table
6.2.1-1. It has a fixed size and consists of a four octets containing 31
C-fields and one R-field. The Activation/Deactivation MAC control
element of four octets is defined as follows (figure 6.1.3.8-2).

For the case with no serving cell with a *ServCellIndex*, as specified
in TS 36.331 \[8\] larger than 7, Activation/Deactivation MAC control
element of one octet is applied, otherwise Activation/Deactivation MAC
control element of four octets is applied.

For the case that Activation/Deactivation MAC control element is
received and Hibernation MAC control element is not received:

\- C~i~: if there is an SCell configured with *SCellIndex* i as
specified in TS 36.331 \[8\], this field indicates the
activation/deactivation status of the SCell with *SCellIndex* i, else
the MAC entity shall ignore the C~i~ field. When the C~i~ field is set
to \"1\", SCell with *SCellIndex* i shall be activated if it is in
already activated state or deactivated state, otherwise the C~i~ field
set to \"1\" shall be ignored. The C~i~ field is set to \"0\" to
indicate that the SCell with *SCellIndex* i shall be deactivated;

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\".

For the case that both Activation/Deactivation MAC control element and
Hibernation MAC control element are received, see clause 6.1.3.15.

Figure 6.1.3.8-1: Activation/Deactivation MAC control element of one
octet

Figure 6.1.3.8-2: Activation/Deactivation MAC control element of four
octets

#### 6.1.3.9 Long DRX Command MAC Control Element

The Long DRX Command MAC control element is identified by a MAC PDU
subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-1.

It has a fixed size of zero bits.

#### 6.1.3.10 Data Volume and Power Headroom Report MAC Control Element

The Data Volume and Power Headroom Report (DPR) MAC control element is
identified by the MAC PDU subheader used for the CCCH MAC SDU, as
specified in table 6.2.1-2. It does not add any additional subheader and
is always placed before the CCCH MAC SDU. DPR MAC control element is not
included in the calculation of the L field in the MAC PDU subheader for
the CCCH MAC SDU.

It has a fixed size and consists of a single octet defined as follows
(figures 6.1.3.10-1 and 6.1.3.10-1a):

\- Data Volume (DV): The Data Volume field identifies the total amount
of data available across all logical channels and of data not yet
associated with a logical channel after all MAC PDUs for the TTI have
been built. The amount of data is indicated in number of bytes. It shall
include all data that is available for transmission in the RLC layer, in
the PDCP layer, and in the RRC layer; the definition of what data shall
be considered as available for transmission is specified in
TS 36.322 \[3\], TS 36.323 \[4\] and TS 36.331 \[8\] respectively. The
size of the RLC and MAC headers are not considered in the buffer size
computation. The length of this field is 4 bits. The values taken by the
Data Volume field are shown in Table 6.1.3.10-1;

\- Power Headroom (PH): This field indicates the power headroom level.
The length of the field is 2 bits or 4 bits. The reported PH and the
corresponding power headroom and extended power headroom levels are
shown in Table 6.1.3.10-2 and Table 6.1.3.10-2a, respectively, below
(the corresponding measured values in dB can be found in
TS 36.133 \[9\]);

\- R: reserved bit, set to \"0\".

Figure 6.1.3.10-1: Data Volume and Power Headroom Report MAC control
element

Figure 6.1.3.10-1a: Data Volume and Power Headroom Report MAC control
element for Extended Power Headroom level reporting

Table 6.1.3.10-1: Data Volume levels for DV

  ----------- -------------------------------------- ----------- --------------------------------------
  **Index**   **Data Volume (DV) value \[bytes\]**   **Index**   **Data Volume (DV) value \[bytes\]**
  0           DV = 0                                 8           67 \< DV \<= 91
  1           0 \< DV \<= 10                         9           91 \< DV \<= 125
  2           10 \< DV \<= 14                        10          125 \< DV \<= 171
  3           14 \< DV \<= 19                        11          171 \< DV \<= 234
  4           19 \< DV \<= 26                        12          234 \< DV \<= 321
  5           26 \< DV \<= 36                        13          321 \< DV \<= 768
  6           36 \< DV \<= 49                        14          768 \< DV \<= 1500
  7           49 \< DV \<= 67                        15          DV \> 1500
  ----------- -------------------------------------- ----------- --------------------------------------

Table 6.1.3.10-2: Power Headroom levels for PH

  ---- ----------------------
  PH   Power Headroom Level
  0    POWER\_HEADROOM\_0
  1    POWER\_HEADROOM\_1
  2    POWER\_HEADROOM\_2
  3    POWER\_HEADROOM\_3
  ---- ----------------------

Table 6.1.3.10-2a: Extended Power Headroom levels for PH

  ---- -------------------------------
  PH   Extended Power Headroom Level
  0    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_0
  1    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_1
  2    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_2
  3    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_3
  4    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_4
  5    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_5
  6    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_6
  7    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_7
  8    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_8
  9    EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_9
  10   EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_10
  11   EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_11
  12   EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_12
  13   EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_13
  14   EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_14
  15   EXTENDED\_POWER\_HEADROOM\_15
  ---- -------------------------------

#### 6.1.3.11 SPS confirmation MAC Control Element

The SPS confirmation MAC control element is identified by a MAC PDU
subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-2.

It has a fixed size of zero bits.

#### 6.1.3.12 SC-PTM Stop Indication MAC Control Element

The SC-PTM Stop Indication MAC control element is applicable to NB-IoT
UEs and BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage and indicates that the
SC-MTCH transmission for a specific G-RNTI is stopped. It is identified
by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-1.

It has a fixed size of zero bits.

#### 6.1.3.13 Recommended bit rate MAC Control Element

The recommended bit rate MAC control element is identified by a MAC PDU
subheader with LCID as specified in tables 6.2.1-1 and 6.2.1-2 for bit
rate recommendation message from the eNB to the UE and bit rate
recommendation query message from the UE to the eNB, respectively. It
has a fixed size and consists of two octets defined as follows (figure
6.1.3.13-1):

\- LCID: This field indicates the identity of the logical channel (as
described in Table 6.1.3.13-2) for which the recommended bit rate or the
recommended bit rate query is applicable. The length of the field is 4
bits;

\- Uplink/Downlink (UL/DL): This field indicates whether the recommended
bit rate or the recommended bit rate query applies to uplink or
downlink. The length of the field is 1 bit. The UL/DL field set to \"0\"
indicates downlink. The UL/DL field set to \"1\" indicates uplink;

\- Bit Rate: This field indicates an index to Table 6.1.3.13-1. The
length of the field is 6 bits. For bit rate recommendation the value
indicates the recommended bit rate. For bit rate recommendation query
the value indicates the desired bit rate;

\- X: Bit rate multiplier. For UEs supporting recommended bit rate
multiplier, when *bitRateMultiplier* is configured for the logical
channel indicated by LCID field, X field set to \"1\" indicates the
actual value of bit rate is the value corresponding to the index
indicated by the Bit Rate field multiplied by *bitRateMultiplier* as
specified in TS 36.331 \[8\];

\- R: reserved bit, set to \"0\".

Figure 6.1.3.13-1: Recommended bit rate MAC control element

Table 6.1.3.13-1: Values (kbit/s) for Bit Rate field

  Index                                                                                                                       Recommended Bit Rate value \[kbit/s\]   Index   Recommended Bit Rate value \[kbit/s\]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ------- ---------------------------------------
  0                                                                                                                           Note 1                                  32      700
  1                                                                                                                           0                                       33      800
  2                                                                                                                           8                                       34      900
  3                                                                                                                           10                                      35      1000
  4                                                                                                                           12                                      36      1100
  5                                                                                                                           16                                      37      1200
  6                                                                                                                           20                                      38      1300
  7                                                                                                                           24                                      39      1400
  8                                                                                                                           28                                      40      1500
  9                                                                                                                           32                                      41      1750
  10                                                                                                                          36                                      42      2000
  11                                                                                                                          40                                      43      2250
  12                                                                                                                          48                                      44      2500
  13                                                                                                                          56                                      45      2750
  14                                                                                                                          72                                      46      3000
  15                                                                                                                          88                                      47      3500
  16                                                                                                                          104                                     48      4000
  17                                                                                                                          120                                     49      4500
  18                                                                                                                          140                                     50      5000
  19                                                                                                                          160                                     51      5500
  20                                                                                                                          180                                     52      6000
  21                                                                                                                          200                                     53      6500
  22                                                                                                                          220                                     54      7000
  23                                                                                                                          240                                     55      7500
  24                                                                                                                          260                                     56      8000
  25                                                                                                                          280                                     57      Reserved
  26                                                                                                                          300                                     58      Reserved
  27                                                                                                                          350                                     59      Reserved
  28                                                                                                                          400                                     60      Reserved
  29                                                                                                                          450                                     61      Reserved
  30                                                                                                                          500                                     62      Reserved
  31                                                                                                                          600                                     63      Reserved
  Note1: For bit rate recommendation message this index is used for indicating that no recommendation on bit rate is given.                                                   

Table 6.1.3.13-2: Values of identity of the logical channel for LCID
field

  Codepoint/Index   Identity of the logical channel (i.e. *logicalChannelIdentity* as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\])
  ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0000              Reserved
  0001              32
  0010              33
  0011-1010         3-10
  1011              34
  1100              35
  1101              36
  1110              37
  1111              38

#### 6.1.3.14 Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources MAC Control Element

The Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources MAC control element is
identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table
6.2.1-1. It has variable size as the number of CSI process configured
with *csi-RS-NZP-Activation* by RRC, see TS 36.331 \[8\], (N) and the N
number of octets with A fields are included in ascending order of CSI
process ID, i.e., *CSI-ProcessId*, as defined in Figure 6.1.3.14-1.
Activation/Deactivation CSI-RS command is defined in Figure 6.1.3.14-2
and activates or deactivates CSI-RS resources for a CSI process. For a
UE configured with transmission mode 9, N equals 1.
Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources MAC control element applies
to the serving cell on which the UE receives the Activation/Deactivation
of CSI-RS resources MAC control element.

The Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources MAC control elements is
defined as follows:

\- A~i~: this field indicates the activation/deactivation status of the
CSI-RS resources configured by upper layers for the CSI process. A~1~
corresponds to the 1^st^ entry in the list of CSI-RS specified by
*csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* as configured by upper layers, A~2~
corresponds to the 2^nd^ entry in this list and so on. The A~i~ field is
set to \"1\" to indicate that i^th^ entry in the list of CSI-RS
specified by *csi-RS-ConfigNZP-ApList* shall be activated. The A~i~
field is set to \"0\" to indicate that i^th^ entry in the list shall be
deactivated. For each CSI process, the number of A~i~ fields (i=1,
2,..., 8) which are set to \"1\" shall be equal to the value of the
higher-layer parameter *activatedResources* in TS 36.331 \[8\].

Figure 6.1.3.14-1: Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS resources MAC
Control Element

Figure 6.1.3.14-2: Activation/Deactivation CSI-RS command

#### 6.1.3.15 Hibernation MAC Control Elements

The Hibernation MAC control element of one octet is identified by a MAC
PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-1. It has a fixed
size and consists of a single octet containing seven C-fields and one
R-field. The Hibernation MAC control element with one octet is defined
as follows (figure 6.1.3.15-1).

The Hibernation MAC control element of four octets is identified by a
MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-1. It has a
fixed size and consists of a four octets containing 31 C-fields and one
R-field. The Hibernation MAC control element of four octets is defined
as follows (figure 6.1.3.15-2).

For the case with no serving cell with a *ServCellIndex*
(TS 36.331 \[8\]) larger than 7, Hibernation MAC control element of one
octet is applied, otherwise Hibernation MAC control element of four
octets is applied.

For the case that Hibernation MAC control element is received and
Activation/Deactivation MAC control element is not received:

\- C~i~: if there is an SCell configured with *SCellIndex* i as
specified in TS 36.331 \[8\], this field indicates the dormant/activated
status of the SCell with *SCellIndex* i, else the MAC entity shall
ignore the C~i~ field. The C~i~ field is set to \"1\" to indicate that
the SCell with *SCellIndex i* shall enter dormant state. When the C~i~
field is set to \"0\", the SCell with *SCellIndex i* shall be activated
if it is in already activated state or dormant state, otherwise the C~i~
field set to \"0\" shall be ignored.

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\".

For the case that both Activation/Deactivation MAC control element and
Hibernation MAC control element are received:

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\".

\- C~i~: if there is an SCell configured with *SCellIndex* i as
specified in TS 36.331 \[8\], these fields indicate possible state
transitions of the SCell with *SCellIndex* i, else the MAC entity shall
ignore the C~i~ fields. The C~i~ fields of the two MAC control elements
are interpreted according to Table 6.1.3.15-1.

Figure 6.1.3.15-1: Hibernation MAC control element of one octet

Figure 6.1.3.15-2: Hibernation MAC control element of four octets

Table 6.1.3.15-1: MAC control elements for SCell state transitions

  -------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------
  Hibernation MAC control element C~i~   Activation/Deactivation MAC control element C~i~   SCell shall be
  0                                      0                                                  Deactivated
  0                                      1                                                  Activated
  1                                      0                                                  Reserved MAC control element combination
  1                                      1                                                  Dormant
  -------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------

#### 6.1.3.16 AUL confirmation MAC Control Element

The AUL confirmation MAC control element of one octet is identified by a
MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-2. It has a
fixed size and consists of a single octet containing seven C-fields and
one R-field. The AUL confirmation MAC control element with one octet is
defined as follows (figure 6.1.3.16-1).

The AUL confirmation MAC control element of four octets is identified by
a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table 6.2.1-2. It has a
fixed size and consists of a four octets containing 31 C-fields and one
R-field. The AUL confirmation MAC control element of four octets is
defined as follows (figure 6.1.3.16-2).

For the case with no serving cell with a *ServCellIndex*
(TS 36.331 \[8\]) larger than 7, AUL confirmation MAC control element of
one octet is applied, otherwise AUL confirmation MAC control element of
four octets is applied.

\- C~i~: if there is an SCell configured with *SCellIndex* i as
specified in TS 36.331 \[8\], this field indicates whether a PDCCH
containing AUL activation or AUL release of the autonomous uplink
configuration in the SCell with *SCellIndex* i has been received, else
the MAC entity shall ignore the C~i~ field. The C~i~ field is set to
\"1\" to indicate that a PDCCH containing AUL activation or AUL release
of the autonomous uplink configuration in the SCell with *SCellIndex* i
has been received in the TTI in which AUL confirmation has been
triggered. The C~i~ field is set to \"0\" to indicate that a PDCCH
containing AUL activation or AUL release of the autonomous uplink
configuration in the SCell with *SCellIndex* i has not been received in
the TTI in which AUL confirmation has been triggered;

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\".

Figure 6.1.3.16-1: AUL confirmation MAC Control Element of one octet

Figure 6.1.3.16-2: AUL confirmation MAC Control Element of four octets

#### 6.1.3.17 PDCP Duplication Activation/Deactivation MAC Control Element

PDCP Duplication Activation/Deactivation MAC control element is
identified by a MAC PDU subheader with LCID as specified in table
6.2.1-1. It has a fixed size, consists of a single octet containing
eight D-fields, and is defined, for a MAC entity, as follows (figure
6.1.3.17-1):

\- D~i~: this field refers to the i-th DRB in the ascending order of the
DRB identity among the established DRB(s) configured with duplication
and with RLC entity(ies) associated with this MAC entity. D~i~ field set
to \"1\" indicates that the duplication shall be activated and D~i~
field set to \"0\" indicates that the duplication shall be deactivated.

Figure 6.1.3.17-1: PDCP Duplication Activation/Deactivation MAC Control
Element

#### 6.1.3.18 Downlink Channel Quality Report Command MAC Control Element

DCQR Command MAC control element is identified by a MAC PDU subheader
with LCID as specified in Table 6.2.1-1.

It has a fixed size of zero bits.

#### 6.1.3.19 Downlink Channel Quality Report and AS RAI MAC Control Element

DCQR and AS RAI MAC control element is identified by a MAC PDU subheader
with LCID as specified in Table 6.2.1-2. A MAC PDU shall contain at most
one DCQR and AS RAI MAC control element.

It has a fixed size and consists of a single octet defined as follows
(Figure 6.1.3.19-1):

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\";

\- AS RAI: The field corresponds to Access Stratum Release Assistance
Indication as shown in Table 6.1.3.19-1. The length of the field is 2
bits;

\- Quality Report: For an NB-IoT UE, the field corresponds to
CQI-NPDCCH-NB as defined in TS 36.331 \[8\]. For a BL UE or UE in CE,
the field corresponds to DL channel quality report as defined in TS
36.133 \[9\]. The length of the field is 4 bits.

Figure 6.1.3.19-1: DCQR and AS RAI MAC control element

Table 6.1.3.19-1: Values for AS RAI

  Codepoint/Index   Value
  ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------
  00                No RAI information
  01                No subsequent DL and UL data transmission is expected
  10                A single subsequent DL transmission is expected
  11                Reserved

### 6.1.4 MAC PDU (transparent MAC)

A MAC PDU consists solely of a MAC Service Data Unit (MAC SDU) whose
size is aligned to a TB; as described in figure 6.1.4-1. This MAC PDU is
used for transmissions on PCH, BCH, DL-SCH including BCCH, BR-BCCH,
SL-DCH and SL-BCH.

Figure 6.1.4-1: Example of MAC PDU (transparent MAC)

### 6.1.5 MAC PDU (Random Access Response)

A MAC PDU consists of a MAC header and zero or more MAC Random Access
Responses (MAC RAR) and optionally padding as described in figure
6.1.5-4.

The MAC header is of variable size.

A MAC PDU header consists of one or more MAC PDU subheaders; each
subheader corresponding to a MAC RAR except for the Backoff Indicator
subheader. If included, the Backoff Indicator subheader is only included
once and is the first subheader included within the MAC PDU header.

A MAC PDU subheader consists of the three header fields E/T/RAPID (as
described in figure 6.1.5-1) but for the Backoff Indicator subheader
which consists of the five header field E/T/R/R/BI (as described in
figure 6.1.5-2).

A MAC RAR consists of the following fields R/Timing Advance Command/UL
Grant/(R/ER)/Temporary C-RNTI (as described in figures 6.1.5-3,
6.1.5-3a, 6.1.5-3b and 6.1.5-3c). For BL UEs and UEs in enhanced
coverage in enhanced coverage level 2 or 3 (see clause 6.2 in
TS 36.213 \[2\]) the MAC RAR in figure 6.1.5-3a is used, for NB-IoT UEs
(see clause 16.3.3 in TS 36.213 \[2\]) the MAC RAR in figure 6.1.5-3b is
used, except for NB-IoT UEs using preamble format 2, the MAC RAR in
figure 6.1.5-3c is used. Otherwise the MAC RAR in figure 6.1.5-3 is
used.

Padding may occur after the last MAC RAR. Presence and length of padding
is implicit based on TB size, size of MAC header and number of RARs.

Figure 6.1.5-1: E/T/RAPID MAC subheader

Figure 6.1.5-2: E/T/R/R/BI MAC subheader

Figure 6.1.5-3: MAC RAR

Figure 6.1.5-3a: MAC RAR for PRACH enhanced coverage level 2 or 3

Figure 6.1.5-3b: MAC RAR for NB-IoT UEs

Figure 6.1.5-3c: MAC RAR for NB-IoT UEs using PRACH preamble format 2

Figure 6.1.5-4: Example of MAC PDU consisting of a MAC header and MAC
RARs

### 6.1.6 MAC PDU (SL-SCH)

A MAC PDU consists of a MAC header, one or more MAC Service Data Units
(MAC SDU), and optionally padding; as described in Figure 6.1.6-4.

Both the MAC header and the MAC SDUs are of variable sizes.

A MAC PDU header consists of one SL-SCH subheader, one or more MAC PDU
subheaders; each subheader except SL-SCH subheader corresponds to either
a MAC SDU or padding.

The SL-SCH subheader consists of the seven header fields
V/R/R/R/R/SRC/DST.

A MAC PDU subheader consists of the six header fields R/R/E/LCID/F/L but
for the last subheader in the MAC PDU. The last subheader in the MAC PDU
consists solely of the four header fields R/R/E/LCID. A MAC PDU
subheader corresponding to padding consists of the four header fields
R/R/E/LCID.

Figure 6.1.6-1: R/R/E/LCID/F/L MAC subheader

Figure 6.1.6-2: R/R/E/LCID MAC subheader

Figure 6.1.6-3: SL-SCH MAC subheader for V =\"0001\" and \"0010\"

Figure 6.1.6-3a: SL-SCH MAC subheader for V=\"0011\"

MAC PDU subheaders have the same order as the corresponding MAC SDUs and
padding.

Padding occurs at the end of the MAC PDU, except when single-byte or
two-byte padding is required. Padding may have any value and the MAC
entity shall ignore it. When padding is performed at the end of the MAC
PDU, zero or more padding bytes are allowed.

When single-byte or two-byte padding is required, one or two MAC PDU
subheaders corresponding to padding are placed after the SL-SCH
subheader and before any other MAC PDU subheader.

A maximum of one MAC PDU can be transmitted per TB.

Figure 6.1.6-4: Example of MAC PDU consisting of MAC header, MAC SDUs
and padding

6.2 Formats and parameters
--------------------------

### 6.2.1 MAC header for DL-SCH, UL-SCH and MCH

The MAC header is of variable size and consists of the following fields:

\- LCID: The Logical Channel ID field identifies the logical channel
instance of the corresponding MAC SDU or the type of the corresponding
MAC control element or padding as described in tables 6.2.1-1, 6.2.1-2
and 6.2.1-4 for the DL-SCH, UL-SCH and MCH respectively. There is one
LCID field for each MAC SDU, MAC control element or padding included in
the MAC PDU. In addition to that, one or two additional LCID fields are
included in the MAC PDU, when single-byte or two-byte padding is
required but cannot be achieved by padding at the end of the MAC PDU. If
the LCID field is set to \"10000\", an additional octet is present in
the MAC PDU subheader containing the eLCID field and this additional
octet follows the octet containing LCID field. A UE of Category 0, as
specified in TS 36.306 \[12\], except when in enhanced coverage, and
*unicastFreqHoppingInd-r13* is indicated in the BR version of SI message
carrying *SystemInformationBlockType2*, and UE supports frequency
hopping for unicast, as specified in TS 36.306 \[12\], shall indicate
CCCH using LCID \"01011\", a BL UE with support for frequency hopping
for unicast, as specified in TS 36.306 \[12\], and a UE in enhanced
coverage with support for frequency hopping for unicast, as specified in
TS 36.306 \[12\], shall if *unicastFreqHoppingInd-r13* is indicated in
the BR version of SI message carrying *SystemInformationBlockType2*
indicate CCCH using LCID \"01100\", otherwise the UE shall indicate CCCH
using LCID \"00000\". A short DCQR may be included in the MAC PDU
subheader with LCID set to \"00000\", \"01011\", \"01100\" or \"01101\".
The LCID field size is 5 bits;

\- eLCID: The extended Logical Channel ID field identifies the logical
channel instance of the corresponding MAC SDU or the type of the
corresponding MAC control element as described in tables 6.2.1-1a and
6.2.1-2a for the DL-SCH and UL-SCH respectively. The size of the eLCID
field is 6 bits.

\- L: The Length field indicates the length of the corresponding MAC SDU
or variable-sized MAC control element in bytes. There is one L field per
MAC PDU subheader except for the last subheader and subheaders
corresponding to fixed-sized MAC control elements. The size of the L
field is indicated by the F field and F2 field;

\- F: The Format field indicates the size of the Length field as
indicated in table 6.2.1-3. There is one F field per MAC PDU subheader
except for the last subheader and subheaders corresponding to
fixed-sized MAC control elements and except for when F2 is set to 1. The
size of the F field is 1 bit. If the F field is included; if the size of
the MAC SDU or variable-sized MAC control element is less than 128
bytes, the value of the F field is set to 0, otherwise it is set to 1;

\- F2: Except when this field is used for short DCQR, the Format2 field
indicates the size of the Length field as indicated in table 6.2.1-3.
For short DCQR, the mapping of F2 field to short DCQR value is described
in table 6.2.1-5. There is one F2 field per MAC PDU subheader. The size
of the F2 field is 1 bit. Except when this field is used for short DCQR,
if the size of the MAC SDU or variable-sized MAC control element is
larger than 32767 bytes, and if the corresponding subheader is not the
last subheader, the value of the F2 field is set to 1, otherwise it is
set to 0;

\- E: The Extension field is a flag indicating if more fields are
present in the MAC header or not. The E field is set to \"1\" to
indicate another set of at least R/F2/E/LCID fields. The E field is set
to \"0\" to indicate that either a MAC SDU, a MAC control element or
padding starts at the next byte;

\- R: Except when this field is used for short DCQR, reserved bit, set
to \"0\". For short DCQR, the mapping of R field to short DCQR value is
described in table 6.2.1-5.

The MAC header and subheaders are octet aligned.

Table 6.2.1-1 Values of LCID for DL-SCH

  Codepoint/Index                                                                                                                                      LCID values
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  00000                                                                                                                                                CCCH
  00001-01010                                                                                                                                          Identity of the logical channel
  01011-01111                                                                                                                                          Reserved
  10000                                                                                                                                                Extended logical channel ID field
  10001                                                                                                                                                DCQR Command
  10010                                                                                                                                                Activation/Deactivation of PDCP Duplication
  10011                                                                                                                                                Hibernation (1 octet)
  10100                                                                                                                                                Hibernation (4 octets)
  10101                                                                                                                                                Activation/Deactivation of CSI-RS
  10110                                                                                                                                                Recommended bit rate
  10111                                                                                                                                                SC-PTM Stop Indication
  11000                                                                                                                                                Activation/Deactivation (4 octets)
  11001                                                                                                                                                SC-MCCH, SC-MTCH (see note)
  11010                                                                                                                                                Long DRX Command
  11011                                                                                                                                                Activation/Deactivation (1 octet)
  11100                                                                                                                                                UE Contention Resolution Identity
  11101                                                                                                                                                Timing Advance Command
  11110                                                                                                                                                DRX Command
  11111                                                                                                                                                Padding
  NOTE: Both SC-MCCH and SC-MTCH cannot be multiplexed with other logical channels in the same MAC PDU except for Padding and SC-PTM Stop Indication   

Table 6.2.1-1a Values of eLCID for DL-SCH

  Codepoint       Index   LCID values
  --------------- ------- ---------------------------------
  000000-000110   32-38   Identity of the logical channel
  000111-111111   39-95   Reserved

For NB-IoT only the following LCID values for DL-SCH are applicable:
CCCH, Identity of the logical channel, DCQR Command, SC-PTM Stop
Indication, SC-MCCH/SC-MTCH, UE Contention Resolution Identity, Timing
Advance Command, DRX Command and Padding.

Table 6.2.1-2 Values of LCID for UL-SCH

  Codepoint/Index   LCID values
  ----------------- -----------------------------------------
  00000             CCCH
  00001-01010       Identity of the logical channel
  01011             CCCH
  01100             CCCH
  01101             CCCH and Extended Power Headroom Report
  01110-01111       Reserved
  10000             Extended logical channel ID field
  10001             DCQR and AS RAI
  10010             AUL confirmation (4 octets)
  10011             AUL confirmation (1 octet)
  10100             Recommended bit rate query
  10101             SPS confirmation
  10110             Truncated Sidelink BSR
  10111             Sidelink BSR
  11000             Dual Connectivity Power Headroom Report
  11001             Extended Power Headroom Report
  11010             Power Headroom Report
  11011             C-RNTI
  11100             Truncated BSR
  11101             Short BSR
  11110             Long BSR
  11111             Padding

Table 6.2.1-2a Values of eLCID for UL-SCH

  Codepoint       Index   LCID values
  --------------- ------- ---------------------------------
  000000-000110   32-38   Identity of the logical channel
  000111-111111   39-95   Reserved

For NB-IoT only the following LCID values for UL-SCH are applicable:
CCCH (LCID \"00000\"), Identity of the logical channel, CCCH and
Extended Power Headroom Report, DCQR and AS RAI, SPS confirmation,
C-RNTI, Short BSR and Padding.

Table 6.2.1-3 Values of F and F2 fields:

  Index of F2   Index of F   Size of Length field (in bits)
  ------------- ------------ --------------------------------
  0             0            7
                1            15
  1             \-           16

Table 6.2.1-4 Values of LCID for MCH

  Index                                                             LCID values
  ----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  00000                                                             MCCH (see note)
  00001-11100                                                       MTCH
  11101                                                             Reserved
  11110                                                             MCH Scheduling Information or Extended MCH Scheduling Information
  11111                                                             Padding
  NOTE: If there is no MCCH on MCH, an MTCH could use this value.   

Table 6.2.1-5: Values of R and F2 fields for short DCQR

  Index of R   Index of F2   Short DCQR value
  ------------ ------------- ------------------
  0            0             No short DCQR
  0            1             Short DCQR 1
  1            0             Short DCQR 2
  1            1             Short DCQR 3

### 6.2.2 MAC header for Random Access Response

The MAC header is of variable size and consists of the following fields:

\- E: The Extension field is a flag indicating if more fields are
present in the MAC header or not. The E field is set to \"1\" to
indicate at least another set of E/T/RAPID fields follows. The E field
is set to \"0\" to indicate that a MAC RAR or padding starts at the next
byte;

\- T: The Type field is a flag indicating whether the MAC subheader
contains a Random Access ID or a Backoff Indicator. The T field is set
to \"0\" to indicate the presence of a Backoff Indicator field in the
subheader (BI). The T field is set to \"1\" to indicate the presence of
a Random Access Preamble ID field in the subheader (RAPID);

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\";

\- BI: The Backoff Indicator field identifies the overload condition in
the cell. The size of the BI field is 4 bits;

\- RAPID: The Random Access Preamble IDentifier field identifies the
transmitted Random Access Preamble (see clause 5.1.3). The size of the
RAPID field is 6 bits.

The MAC header and subheaders are octet aligned.

NOTE: For NB-IoT, the Random Access Preamble IDentifier field
corresponds to the start subcarrier index.

### 6.2.3 MAC payload for Random Access Response

The MAC RAR is of fixed size and consists of the following fields:

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\". For a BL UE or a UE in CE, this bit is
set to \"1\" to indicate that an UL Grant in Random Access Response is
for EDT;

\- Timing Advance Command: The Timing Advance Command field indicates
the index value *T~A~* (0, 1, 2... 1282) used to control the amount of
timing adjustment that the MAC entity has to apply (see clause 4.2.3 of
TS 36.213 \[2\]), except for NB-IoT UEs using preamble format 2, where
the Timing Advance Command field indicates the index value *T~A~* (0, 1,
2... 1536). The size of the Timing Advance Command field is 11 bits;

\- UL Grant: The Uplink Grant field indicates the resources to be used
on the uplink (see clause 6.2 of TS 36.213 \[2\], *or for NB-IoT UEs,*
see clause 16.3.3 of TS 36.213 \[2\]). The size of the UL Grant field is
20 bits, *except for NB-IoT UEs, where the size of UL grant field is 15
bits, and except* for BL UEs and UEs in enhanced coverage level 2 or 3,
where the size of the UL grant field is 12 bits.

\- ER: Extended RAPID bits, indicating the two least significant bits of
extended RAPID used when PRACH preamble format 2 is transmitted.

\- Temporary C-RNTI: The Temporary C-RNTI field indicates the temporary
identity that is used by the MAC entity during Random Access. The size
of the Temporary C-RNTI field is 16 bits.

The MAC RAR is octet aligned.

### 6.2.4 MAC header for SL-SCH

The MAC header is of variable size and consists of the following fields:

\- V: The MAC PDU format version number field indicates which version of
the SL-SCH subheader is used. In this version of the specification three
format versions are defined, and this field shall therefore be set to
\"0001\", \"0010\", and \"0011\". If the DST field is 24 bits this field
shall be set to \"0011\". The V field size is 4 bits;

\- SRC: The Source Layer-2 ID field carries the identity of the source.
It is set to the ProSe UE ID. The SRC field size is 24 bits;

\- DST: The DST field can be 16 bits or 24 bits. If it is 16 bits, it
carries the 16 most significant bits of the Destination Layer-2 ID. If
it is 24 bits, it is set to the Destination Layer-2 ID. For sidelink
communication, the Destination Layer-2 ID is set to the ProSe Layer-2
Group ID or Prose UE ID. For V2X sidelink communication, the Destination
Layer-2 ID is set to the identifier provided by upper layers as defined
in TS 23.285 \[14\]. If the V field is set to \"0001\", this identifier
is a groupcast identifier. If the V field is set to \"0010\", this
identifier is a unicast identifier;

\- LCID: The Logical Channel ID field uniquely identifies the logical
channel instance within the scope of one Source Layer-2 ID and
Destination Layer-2 ID pair of the corresponding MAC SDU or padding as
described in table 6.2.4-1. There is one LCID field for each MAC SDU or
padding included in the MAC PDU. In addition to that, one or two
additional LCID fields are included in the MAC PDU, when single-byte or
two-byte padding is required but cannot be achieved by padding at the
end of the MAC PDU. The values of LCID from \"01011\" to \"10100\"
identify the logical channels used to send duplicated RLC SDUs from
logical channels of which the values of LCID from \"00001\" to \"01010\"
respectively in sequential order. The LCID field size is 5 bits;

\- L: The Length field indicates the length of the corresponding MAC SDU
in bytes. There is one L field per MAC PDU subheader except for the last
subheader. The size of the L field is indicated by the F field;

\- F: The Format field indicates the size of the Length field as
indicated in table 6.2.4-2. There is one F field per MAC PDU subheader
except for the last subheader. The size of the F field is 1 bit. If the
size of the MAC SDU is less than 128 bytes, the value of the F field is
set to 0, otherwise it is set to 1;

\- E: The Extension field is a flag indicating if more fields are
present in the MAC header or not. The E field is set to \"1\" to
indicate another set of at least R/R/E/LCID fields. The E field is set
to \"0\" to indicate that either a MAC SDU or padding starts at the next
byte;

\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\".

The MAC header and subheaders are octet aligned.

Table 6.2.4-1 Values of LCID for SL-SCH

  Index         LCID values
  ------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  00000         Reserved
  00001-01010   Identity of the logical channel
  01011-10100   Identity of the logical channel which is used for duplication
  10101-11011   Reserved
  11100         PC5-S messages that are not protected
  11101         PC5-S messages \"Direct Security Mode Command\" and \"Direct Security Mode Complete\"
  11110         Other PC5-S messages that are protected
  11111         Padding

Table 6.2.4-2 Values of F field:

  Index   Size of Length field (in bits)
  ------- --------------------------------
  0       7
  1       15

7 Variables and constants
=========================

7.1 RNTI values
---------------

RNTI values are presented in Table 7.1-1 and their usage and associated
Transport Channels and Logical Channels are presented in Table 7.1-2.

Table 7.1-1: RNTI values.

+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Value (hexa-decimal) | RNTI                                         |
+======================+==============================================+
| 0000                 | N/A                                          |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| 0001-0960            | RA-RNTI, C-RNTI, Semi-Persistent Scheduling  |
|                      | C-RNTI, Temporary C-RNTI, eIMTA-RNTI,        |
| 0001-1000 (Note 3)   | TPC-PUCCH-RNTI, TPC-PUSCH-RNTI, SL-RNTI (see |
|                      | note), G-RNTI, SL-V-RNTI, UL Semi-Persistent |
|                      | Scheduling V-RNTI, SL Semi-Persistent        |
|                      | Scheduling V-RNTI, SRS-TPC-RNTI, AUL C-RNTI, |
|                      | and PUR-RNTI                                 |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| 0961-FFF3            | C-RNTI, Semi-Persistent Scheduling C-RNTI,   |
|                      | eIMTA-RNTI, Temporary C-RNTI,                |
| 1001-FFF3 (Note 3)   | TPC-PUCCH-RNTI, TPC-PUSCH-RNTI, SL-RNTI,     |
|                      | G-RNTI, SL-V-RNTI, UL Semi-Persistent        |
|                      | Scheduling V-RNTI, SL Semi-Persistent        |
|                      | Scheduling V-RNTI, SRS-TPC-RNTI, AUL C-RNTI, |
|                      | and PUR-RNTI                                 |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| FFF4-FFF8            | Reserved for future use                      |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| FFF9                 | SI-RNTI                                      |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| FFFA                 | SC-N-RNTI                                    |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| FFFB                 | SC-RNTI                                      |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| FFFC                 | CC-RNTI                                      |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| FFFD                 | M-RNTI                                       |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| FFFE                 | P-RNTI                                       |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| FFFF                 | SI-RNTI                                      |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+

NOTE 1: A MAC entity uses the same C-RNTI on all Serving Cells.

NOTE 2: SI-RNTI value FFFF may be used for MBMS-dedicated carrier.
SI-RNTI value FFF9 is only used for MBMS-dedicated carrier.

NOTE 3: Range applicable for NB-IoT.

Table 7.1-2: RNTI usage.

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| RNTI           | Usage          | Transport      | Logical        |
|                |                | Channel        | Channel        |
+================+================+================+================+
| P-RNTI         | Paging and     | PCH            | PCCH           |
|                | System         |                |                |
|                | Information    |                |                |
|                | change         |                |                |
|                | notification   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SI-RNTI        | Broadcast of   | DL-SCH         | BCCH, BR-BCCH  |
|                | System         |                |                |
|                | Information    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| M-RNTI         | MCCH           | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | Information    |                |                |
|                | change         |                |                |
|                | notification   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| RA-RNTI        | Random Access  | DL-SCH         | N/A            |
|                | Response       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| eIMTA-RNTI     | eIMTA TDD      | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | UL/DL          |                |                |
|                | configuration  |                |                |
|                | notification   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Temporary      | Contention     | DL-SCH         | CCCH, DCCH     |
| C-RNTI         | Resolution\    |                |                |
|                | (when no valid |                |                |
|                | C-RNTI is      |                |                |
|                | available)     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Temporary      | Msg3           | UL-SCH         | CCCH, DCCH,    |
| C-RNTI         | transmission   |                | DTCH           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| C-RNTI         | Dynamically    | UL-SCH         | DCCH, DTCH     |
|                | scheduled      |                |                |
|                | unicast        |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| C-RNTI         | Dynamically    | DL-SCH         | CCCH, DCCH,    |
|                | scheduled      |                | DTCH           |
|                | unicast        |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| C-RNTI         | Triggering of  | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | PDCCH ordered  |                |                |
|                | random access  |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| S              | Sem            | DL-SCH, UL-SCH | DCCH, DTCH     |
| emi-Persistent | i-Persistently |                |                |
| Scheduling     | scheduled      |                |                |
| C-RNTI         | unicast        |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | (activation,   |                |                |
|                | reactivation   |                |                |
|                | and            |                |                |
|                | r              |                |                |
|                | etransmission) |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| S              | Sem            | N/A            | N/A            |
| emi-Persistent | i-Persistently |                |                |
| Scheduling     | scheduled      |                |                |
| C-RNTI         | unicast        |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | (deactivation) |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| TPC-PUCCH-RNTI | Physical layer | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | Uplink power   |                |                |
|                | control        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| TPC-PUSCH-RNTI | Physical layer | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | Uplink power   |                |                |
|                | control        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SL-RNTI        | Dynamically    | SL-SCH         | STCH           |
|                | scheduled      |                |                |
|                | sidelink       |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
|                | for sidelink   |                |                |
|                | communication  |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SC-RNTI        | Dynamically    | DL-SCH         | SC-MCCH        |
|                | scheduled      |                |                |
|                | SC-PTM control |                |                |
|                | information    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| G-RNTI         | Dynamically    | DL-SCH         | SC-MTCH        |
|                | scheduled      |                |                |
|                | SC-PTM         |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SC-N-RNTI      | SC-MCCH        | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | Information    |                |                |
|                | change         |                |                |
|                | notification   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| CC-RNTI        | Providing      | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | common control |                |                |
|                | PDCCH          |                |                |
|                | information    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SL-V-RNTI      | Dynamically    | SL-SCH         | STCH           |
|                | scheduled      |                |                |
|                | sidelink       |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
|                | for V2X        |                |                |
|                | sidelink       |                |                |
|                | communication  |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| UL             | Sem            | UL-SCH         | DCCH, DTCH     |
| S              | i-Persistently |                |                |
| emi-Persistent | scheduled      |                |                |
| Scheduling     | uplink         |                |                |
| V-RNTI         | transmission   |                |                |
|                | for V2X        |                |                |
|                | communication  |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | (activation,   |                |                |
|                | reactivation   |                |                |
|                | and            |                |                |
|                | r              |                |                |
|                | etransmission) |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| UL             | Sem            | N/A            | N/A            |
| S              | i-Persistently |                |                |
| emi-Persistent | scheduled      |                |                |
| Scheduling     | uplink         |                |                |
| V-RNTI         | transmission   |                |                |
|                | for V2X        |                |                |
|                | communication  |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | (deactivation) |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SL             | Sem            | SL-SCH         | STCH           |
| S              | i-Persistently |                |                |
| emi-Persistent | scheduled      |                |                |
| Scheduling     | sidelink       |                |                |
| V-RNTI         | transmission   |                |                |
|                | for V2X        |                |                |
|                | sidelink       |                |                |
|                | communication  |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | (activation,   |                |                |
|                | reactivation   |                |                |
|                | and            |                |                |
|                | r              |                |                |
|                | etransmission) |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SL             | Sem            | N/A            | N/A            |
| S              | i-Persistently |                |                |
| emi-Persistent | scheduled      |                |                |
| Scheduling     | sidelink       |                |                |
| V-RNTI         | transmission   |                |                |
|                | for V2X        |                |                |
|                | sidelink       |                |                |
|                | communication  |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | (deactivation) |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SRS-TPC-RNTI   | SRS and TPC    | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | for the        |                |                |
|                | PUSCH-less     |                |                |
|                | SCells         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| AUL C-RNTI     | Autonomous     | UL-SCH         | DCCH, DTCH     |
|                | Uplink C-RNTI  |                |                |
|                | unicast        |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
|                | (activation    |                |                |
|                | and            |                |                |
|                | reactivation)  |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| AUL C-RNTI     | Autonomous     | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | Uplink C-RNTI  |                |                |
|                | unicast        |                |                |
|                | transmission   |                |                |
|                | (deactivation) |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PUR-RNTI       | Transmission   | DL-SCH, UL-SCH | CCCH, DCCH,    |
|                | using          |                | DTCH           |
|                | Preconfigured  |                |                |
|                | Uplink         |                |                |
|                | Resource       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PUR-RNTI       | Transmission   | N/A            | N/A            |
|                | using          |                |                |
|                | Preconfigured  |                |                |
|                | Uplink         |                |                |
|                | Resource (L1   |                |                |
|                | ACK or         |                |                |
|                | fallback       |                |                |
|                | indication)    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

7.2 Backoff Parameter values
----------------------------

Backoff Parameter values are presented in Table 7.2-1 except for NB-IoT
where Table 7.2-2 shall be used.

Table 7.2-1: Backoff Parameter values.

  Index   Backoff Parameter value (ms)
  ------- ------------------------------
  0       0
  1       10
  2       20
  3       30
  4       40
  5       60
  6       80
  7       120
  8       160
  9       240
  10      320
  11      480
  12      960
  13      Reserved
  14      Reserved
  15      Reserved

The reserved values of the backoff parameter if received by the current
release version UEs shall be taken as 960 ms.

Table 7.2-2: Backoff Parameter values for NB-IoT.

  Index   Backoff Parameter value (ms)
  ------- ------------------------------
  0       0
  1       256
  2       512
  3       1024
  4       2048
  5       4096
  6       8192
  7       16384
  8       32768
  9       65536
  10      131072
  11      262144
  12      524288
  13      Reserved
  14      Reserved
  15      Reserved

The reserved values of the backoff parameter if received by the current
release version NB-IoT UEs shall be taken as 524288 ms.

7.3 PRACH Mask Index values
---------------------------

Table 7.3-1: PRACH Mask Index values

+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| PRACH Mask Index | Allowed PRACH (FDD)    | Allowed PRACH (TDD)    |
+==================+========================+========================+
| 0                | All                    | All                    |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 1                | PRACH Resource Index 0 | PRACH Resource Index 0 |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 2                | PRACH Resource Index 1 | PRACH Resource Index 1 |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 3                | PRACH Resource Index 2 | PRACH Resource Index 2 |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 4                | PRACH Resource Index 3 | PRACH Resource Index 3 |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 5                | PRACH Resource Index 4 | PRACH Resource Index 4 |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 6                | PRACH Resource Index 5 | PRACH Resource Index 5 |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 7                | PRACH Resource Index 6 | Reserved               |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 8                | PRACH Resource Index 7 | Reserved               |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 9                | PRACH Resource Index 8 | Reserved               |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 10               | PRACH Resource Index 9 | Reserved               |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 11               | Every, in the time     | Every, in the time     |
|                  | domain, even PRACH     | domain, even PRACH     |
|                  | opportunity            | opportunity            |
|                  |                        |                        |
|                  | 1^st^ PRACH Resource   | 1^st^ PRACH Resource   |
|                  | Index in subframe      | Index in subframe      |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 12               | Every, in the time     | Every, in the time     |
|                  | domain, odd PRACH      | domain, odd PRACH      |
|                  | opportunity            | opportunity            |
|                  |                        |                        |
|                  | 1^st^ PRACH Resource   | 1^st^ PRACH Resource   |
|                  | Index in subframe      | Index in subframe      |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 13               | Reserved               | 1^st^ PRACH Resource   |
|                  |                        | Index in subframe      |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 14               | Reserved               | 2^nd^ PRACH Resource   |
|                  |                        | Index in subframe      |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| 15               | Reserved               | 3^rd^ PRACH Resource   |
|                  |                        | Index in subframe      |
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+

7.4 Subframe\_Offset values
---------------------------

Subframe\_Offset values are presented in Table 7.4-1.

Table 7.4-1: Subframe\_Offset values

  TDD UL/DL configuration   Position of initial Semi-Persistent grant   Subframe\_Offset value (ms)
  ------------------------- ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  0                         N/A                                         0
  1                         Subframes 2 and 7                           1
                            Subframes 3 and 8                           -1
  2                         Subframe 2                                  5
                            Subframe 7                                  -5
  3                         Subframes 2 and 3                           1
                            Subframe 4                                  -2
  4                         Subframe 2                                  1
                            Subframe 3                                  -1
  5                         N/A                                         0
  6                         N/A                                         0

7.5 TTI\_BUNDLE\_SIZE value
---------------------------

The parameter TTI\_BUNDLE\_SIZE is 4.

7.6 DELTA\_PREAMBLE values
--------------------------

Except for NB-IoT, the DELTA\_PREAMBLE preamble format based power
offset values are presented in Table 7.6-1.

Table 7.6-1: DELTA\_PREAMBLE values.

  Preamble Format   DELTA\_PREAMBLE value
  ----------------- -----------------------
  0                 0 dB
  1                 0 dB
  2                 -3 dB
  3                 -3 dB
  4                 8 dB

Where the Preamble Format is given by *prach-ConfigIndex*, as specified
in TS 36.211 \[7\].

For NB-IoT, the DELTA\_PREAMBLE preamble format based power offset
values are presented in Table 7.6-2.

Table 7.6-2: DELTA\_PREAMBLE values for NB-IoT.

  Preamble Format   DELTA\_PREAMBLE value    
  ----------------- ------------------------ ------------------------
                    Frame Structure Type 1   Frame Structure Type 2
  0, 1              0 dB                     0dB
  0a, 1a            \-                       0dB
  2                 10\*log10(1/3) dB        0dB

Where Preamble Format is specified in TS 36.211 \[7\].

7.7 HARQ RTT Timers
-------------------

For each serving cell, in case of FDD configuration not configured with
*subframeAssignment-r15* and in case of Frame Structure Type 3
configuration on the serving cell which carries the HARQ feedback for
this serving cell the HARQ RTT Timer is set to 8 subframes. For each
serving cell, in case of TDD configuration or FDD with
*subframeAssignment-r15* configured on the serving cell which carries
the HARQ feedback for this serving cell the HARQ RTT Timer is set to k +
4 subframes, where k is the interval between the downlink transmission
and the transmission of associated HARQ feedback, as indicated in
clauses 10.1 and 10.2 of TS 36.213 \[2\], and for an RN configured with
*rn-SubframeConfig*, as specified in TS 36.331 \[8\] and not suspended,
as indicated in Table 7.5.1-1 of TS 36.216 \[11\].

For each serving cell, for HARQ processes scheduled using Short
Processing Time (TS 36.331 \[8\]) the HARQ RTT is set to 6 subframes for
FDD and Frame Structure Type 3 and set to k + 3 subframes for TDD, where
k is the interval between the downlink transmission and the transmission
of associated HARQ feedback, as indicated in clauses 10.1 and 10.2 of
TS 36.213 \[2\].

For each serving cell, for HARQ processes scheduled using short TTI
(TS 36.331 \[8\]) the HARQ RTT is set to 8 TTIs if the TTI length is one
slot or if *proc-Timeline* is set to n+4 set1, to 12 TTIs if
*proc-Timeline* is set to n+6 set1 or n+6 set2 and to 16 TTIs if
*proc-Timeline* is set to n+8 set2 for FDD and Frame Structure Type 3.

For TDD short TTI the HARQ RTT is set to k + 4 TTIs, where k is the
interval between the downlink transmission and the transmission of
associated HARQ feedback, as indicated in clauses 10.1 and 10.2 of
TS 36.213 \[2\].

For BL UEs and UEs in enhanced coverage, when single TB is scheduled by
PDCCH the HARQ RTT Timer corresponds to 7 + N where N is the used PUCCH
repetition factor, where only valid (configured) UL subframes as
configured by upper layers in *fdd-UplinkSubframeBitmapBR* are counted.
*In case of TDD, HARQ RTT Timer corresponds to 3 + k + N, where k is the
interval between the last repetition of downlink transmission and the
first repetition of the transmission of associated HARQ feedback, and N
is the used PUCCH repetition factor, where only valid UL subframes are
counted as indicated in clauses 10.1 and 10.2 of TS 36.213 \[2\].*

*For BL UEs and UEs in enhanced coverage, when multiple TBs are
scheduled by PDCCH and HARQ-ACK bundling is not configured, the HARQ RTT
Timer corresponds to 7 + m \* N where N is the used PUCCH repetition
factor and m is the number of scheduled TBs as indicated in PDCCH, where
only valid (configured) UL subframes as configured* by upper layers in
*fdd-UplinkSubframeBitmapBR* are counted.

*For BL UEs and UEs in enhanced coverage, when multiple TBs are
scheduled by PDCCH and HARQ-ACK bundling is configured the HARQ RTT
Timer corresponds to 7 + M \* N where N is the used PUCCH repetition
factor and M is the number of TB bundles as specified in clause 7.3 of
TS 36.213 \[2\], where only valid (configured) UL subframes as
configured* by upper layers in *fdd-UplinkSubframeBitmapBR* are counted.

For NB-IoT, when single TB is scheduled by PDCCH or when multiple TBs
are scheduled for the interleaved case when HARQ-ACK bundling is
configured the HARQ RTT Timer is set to k+3+N+deltaPDCCH subframes,
where k is the interval between the last subframe of the downlink
transmission and the first subframe of the associated HARQ feedback
transmission and N is the transmission duration in subframes of the
associated HARQ feedback, and deltaPDCCH is the interval starting from
the subframe following the last subframe of the associated HARQ feedback
transmission plus 3 subframes to the first subframe of the next PDCCH
occasion.

For NB-IoT, when multiple TBs are scheduled by PDCCH for the
non-interleaved case or for the interleaved case when HARQ-ACK bundling
is not configured, the HARQ RTT Timer is set to k+2\*N+1+deltaPDCCH
subframes where k is the interval between the last subframe of the
downlink transmission and the first subframe of the first HARQ feedback
transmission and N is the transmission duration in subframes of the
associated HARQ feedback, and deltaPDCCH is the interval starting from
the subframe following the last subframe of the last HARQ feedback
transmission plus 1 subframe to the first subframe of the next PDCCH
occasion.

Except for NB-IoT and for HARQ processes scheduled using Short
Processing Time and for short TTI, UL HARQ RTT Timer length is set to 4
subframes *for FDD and Frame Structure Type 3, and set to k~ULHARQRTT~
subframes for TDD, where k~ULHARQRTT~ equals to the k~PHICH~ value
indicated in Table 9.1.2-1 of TS 36.213 \[2\] if the UE is not
configured with upper layer parameter symPUSCH-UpPts for the serving
cell, otherwise the k~PHICH~ value is indicated in Table 9.1.2-3*.

For NB-IoT, when single TB is scheduled by PDCCH the UL HARQ RTT timer
length is set to 4+deltaPDCCH subframes, where deltaPDCCH is the
interval starting from the subframe following the last subframe of the
PUSCH transmission plus 3 subframes to the first subframe of the next
PDCCH occasion.

For NB-IoT, when multiple TBs are scheduled by PDCCH the UL HARQ RTT
timer length is set to 1+deltaPDCCH subframes, where deltaPDCCH is the
interval starting from the subframe following the last subframe of the
PUSCH transmission plus 1 subframe to the first subframe of the next
PDCCH occasion.

For HARQ processes scheduled using Short Processing Time
(TS 36.331 \[8\]), the UL HARQ RTT Timer length is set to 3 subframes
for FDD and for Frame Structure Type 3, *and set to k~ULHARQRTT~
subframes for TDD, where k~ULHARQRTT~ equals the value indicated in
Table 7.7-1* and Table 7.7-2.

For HARQ processes scheduled using short TTI (TS 36.331 \[8\]), the UL
HARQ RTT Timer length is set to 8 TTIs if the TTI length is one slot or
if *proc-Timeline* is set to n+4 set1, to 12 TTIs if *proc-Timeline* is
set to n+6 set1 or n+6 set2 and to 16 TTIs if *proc-Timeline* is set to
n+8 set2 for FDD and Frame Structure Type 3. For TDD short TTI the UL
HARQ RTT is *set to k~ULHARQRTT~ TTIs, where k~ULHARQRTT~ equals the
value indicated in Table 7.7-3*, Table 7.7-4 and Table 7.7-5.

Table 7.7-1: k~ULHARQRTT~ for TDD Short Processing Time when special
subframe configurations 0\~9 is configured

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **subframe index *n***                                                                   
  Configuration**                                                                                            
  ----------------- ------------------------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------
                    **0**                    **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**

  0                                                  3       3       6                       3       3       6

  1                                                  3       3                               3       3       

  2                                                  3                                       3               

  3                                                  3       3       3                                       

  4                                                  3       3                                               

  5                                                  3                                                       

  6                                                  3       3       5                       3       3       
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.7-2: k~ULHARQRTT~ for TDD Short Processing Time applied when
special subframe configuration 10 is configured

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **subframe index n**                                                                   
  Configuration**                                                                                          
  ----------------- ---------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------
                    **0**                  **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**

  0                                        4       3       3       6               4       3       3       6

  1                                        3       3       3                       3       3       3        

  2                                        3       3                               3       3                

  3                                        4       3       3       3                                        

  4                                        3       3       3                                                

  5                                        3       3                                                        

  6                                        4       3       3       5               3       3       3        
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.7-3: k~ULHARQRTT~ for TDD short TTI applied when special
subframe configurations 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 are configured

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **sTTI index *n***                                                                                                                                                            
  Configuration**                                                                                                                                                                                 
  ----------------- -------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                    **0**                **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**   **10**   **11**   **12**   **13**   **14**   **15**   **16**   **17**   **18**   **19**

  0                                                              6       *5*     *4*     4       4       4                                           6        5        4        4        4        4

  1                                                              *4*     4       *4*     4                                                           4        4        4        4                 

  2                                                              4       4                                                                           *4*      *4*                                 

  3                                                              6       5       *4*     *4*     *4*     4                                                                                        

  4                                                              4       4       4       *4*                                                                                                      

  5                                                              4       4                                                                                                                        

  6                                                              6       *5*     *4*     4       4       *4*                                         4        4        4        4                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.7-4: k~ULHARQRTT~ for TDD short TTI applied when special
subframe configurations 0, 5 and 9 are configured

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **sTTI index *n***                                                                                                                                                            
  Configuration**                                                                                                                                                                                 
  ----------------- -------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                    **0**                **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**   **10**   **11**   **12**   **13**   **14**   **15**   **16**   **17**   **18**   **19**

  0                                                              6       *5*     *4*     4       4       11                                          6        5        4        4        4        11

  1                                                              *4*     4       *4*     4                                                           4        4        4        4                 

  2                                                              4       4                                                                           *4*      *4*                                 

  3                                                              6       5       *4*     *4*     *4*     4                                                                                        

  4                                                              4       4       4       *4*                                                                                                      

  5                                                              4       4                                                                                                                        

  6                                                              6       *5*     *4*     4       4       *9*                                         4        4        4        4                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 7.7-5: *k~ULHARQRTT~ for TDD* short TTI applied when special
subframe configuration 10 is configured

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **TDD UL/DL\      **sTTI index *n***                                                                                                                                                            
  Configuration**                                                                                                                                                                                 
  ----------------- -------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                    **0**                **1**   **2**   **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**   **8**   **9**   **10**   **11**   **12**   **13**   **14**   **15**   **16**   **17**   **18**   **19**

  0                                                      7       6       *5*     *4*     4       4       11                                 7        6        5        4        4        4        11

  1                                                      5       *4*     4       *4*     4                                                  5        4        4        4        4                 

  2                                                      4       4       4                                                                  *4*      *4*      *4*                                 

  3                                                      7       6       5       *4*     *4*     *4*     4                                                                                        

  4                                                      5       4       4       *4*     *4*                                                                                                      

  5                                                      4       4       4                                                                                                                        

  6                                                      7       6       *5*     *4*     4       4       *9*                                5        4        4        4        4                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7.8 DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER value
--------------------------------

The parameter DL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER value is received from lower layers
and corresponds to the repetition level as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\].

7.9 UL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER value
--------------------------------

The parameter UL\_REPETITION\_NUMBER value is received from lower layers
and corresponds to the repetition level as specified in TS 36.213 \[2\].

########  Annex A (normative): Handling of measurement gaps

In this specification, the subframes which cannot be used for
transmission according to clause 8.1.2.1 of TS 36.133 \[9\] are also
considered as part of measurement gaps in uplink. Measurement gaps are
defined in TS 36.133 \[9\].

In a subframe that is part of a measurement gap, the UE shall not
perform the transmission of HARQ feedback and CQI/PMI/RI/PTI/CRI, and
SRS shall not be reported.

######## * *Annex B (normative): Contention resolution for RACH access

When checking whether contention resolution was successful a MAC entity
considers the MAC header structures shown below for the processing of a
MAC PDU containing a UE Contention Resolution Identity MAC control
element.

Figure B-1: MAC header structures containing a UE Contention Resolution
Identity MAC control element

NOTE 1: For Case 1 (only Contention Resolution ID is carried), the
resulting MAC PDU content is of fixed size and UE interprets the rest of
MAC PDU data (if any) as padding without MAC subheader for padding.

NOTE 2: For Case 2 to Case 6, LCID of \'00001\' is applicable only when
UE supports the CIoT EPS User Plane optimisation.

NOTE 3: Case 7 and Case 8 are only applicable to EDT when the UE
supports the CIoT EPS User Plane optimisation. For NB-IoT UE, n is 1 or
2. For BL UE or a UE in enhanced coverage, n is from 1 to 8.

NOTE 4: In Case 7, if n is 1, there is no L field after the subheader of
MAC SDU for DTCH.

########  Annex C (informative): Intended UE behaviour for DRX Timers

When a DRX timer is set to a value of *X*, and *n* denotes the subframe
in which the related event is triggered according to the clause 5.7, the
intended behaviours of each DRX timer are presented in the Table C-1
below:

Table C-1: Intended UE behaviour for DRX timers

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX Timers                       | Intended UE behaviour\           |
|                                  | (\[x, y\] means including        |
|                                  | subframe x and y)                |
+==================================+==================================+
| drx-InactivityTimer              | The MAC entity monitors PDCCH in |
|                                  | PDCCH-subframes during the       |
|                                  | subframes \[n+1, n+m\].          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | The MAC entity starts or         |
|                                  | restarts drxShortCycleTimer, and |
|                                  | uses Short DRX Cycle in the      |
|                                  | subframe n+m+1, if configured.   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| drx-InactivityTimerSCPTM         | The MAC entity monitors PDCCH in |
|                                  | PDCCH-subframes during the       |
|                                  | subframes \[n+1, n+m\].          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| mac-ContentionResolutionTimer or | The MAC entity monitors PDCCH in |
| mac-ContentionResolutionTimer    | PDCCH-subframes during the       |
| for the corresponding enhanced   | subframes \[n+1, n+X\].          |
| coverage level, if it exists     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| drx-RetransmissionTimer or       | The MAC entity monitors PDCCH in |
| drx-ULRetransmissionTimer        | PDCCH-subframes during the       |
|                                  | subframes \[n, n+m-1\].          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| onDurationTimer or               | The MAC entity monitors PDCCH in |
| onDurationTimerSCPTM             | PDCCH-subframes during the       |
|                                  | subframes \[n, n+m-1\].          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| drxShortCycleTimer               | The MAC entity uses the Short    |
|                                  | DRX Cycle during the subframes   |
|                                  | \[n, n+X-1\].                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | The MAC entity starts to use the |
|                                  | Long DRX Cycle in the subframe   |
|                                  | n+X.                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| HARQ RTT Timer                   | The MAC entity starts            |
|                                  | drx-RetransmissionTimer in the   |
|                                  | subframe n+X, if needed.         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| UL HARQ RTT Timer                | The MAC entity starts            |
|                                  | drx-ULRetransmissionTimer in the |
|                                  | subframe n+X, if needed.         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: For FDD, m is equal to   |                                  |
| X; for TDD, m is equal to the    |                                  |
| minimum number of subframes so   |                                  |
| that X PDCCH-subframes are       |                                  |
| included during the subframes    |                                  |
| \[x, y\].                        |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: A MAC entity configured  |                                  |
| with eIMTA monitors PDCCH in     |                                  |
| some subframe(s) in addition to  |                                  |
| PDCCH-subframes, as specified in |                                  |
| clause 5.7.                      |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: For BL UE or UE in       |                                  |
| enhanced coverage, m is equal to |                                  |
| the minimum number of subframes  |                                  |
| so that X PDCCH-subframes are    |                                  |
| included during the subframes    |                                  |
| \[x, y\].                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

For *drx-InactivityTimerSCPTM, drx-InactivityTimer*,
*drx-RetransmissionTimer and drx-ULRetransmissionTimer*, if *X*=0, the
timer does not make the MAC entity to monitor the PDCCH.

The intended UE behaviours in Table C-1 are not applicable for NB-IoT.

For NB-IoT, the intended UE behaviour regarding setting the HARQ RTT
Timer is shown in Figure C-1 and for the UL HARQ RTT Timer is shown in
Figure C-2.

Figure C-1: Setting the HARQ RTT Timer for NB-IoT

Figure C-2: Setting the UL HARQ RTT Timer for NB-IoT

########  Annex D (normative): List of CRs Containing Early Implementable Features and Corrections

This annex lists the Change Requests (CRs) whose changes may be
implemented by a UE of an earlier release than which the CR was approved
in (i.e. CRs that contain on their coversheets the sentence
\"Implementation of this CR from Rel-N will not cause interoperability
issues\").

Table D-1: List of CRs Containing Early Implementable Features and
Corrections

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| TDoc Number | CR          | CR Revision | Earliest    | Additional  |
| (           | Number(s)   | Number(s)   | Im          | Information |
| RP-xxxxxx): |             |             | plementable |             |
| CR Title    |             |             | Release     |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| RP-181232:  | 1300        | 2           | Release 13  |             |
| Clarifying  |             |             |             |             |
| PDCCH       |             |             |             |             |
| Period      |             |             |             |             |
| Definition  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| RP-181961:  | 1327        | 1           | Release 13  |             |
| Defining    |             |             |             |             |
| PDCC        |             |             |             |             |
| H-Subframes |             |             |             |             |
| for NB-IoT  |             |             |             |             |
| UE          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| RP-191385:  | 1450        | 1           | Release 13  |             |
| Cl          |             |             |             |             |
| arification |             |             |             |             |
| of Length   |             |             |             |             |
| field for   |             |             |             |             |
| DPR         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| RP-192941:  | 1459        | 2           | Release 13  |             |
| Cl          |             |             |             |             |
| arification |             |             |             |             |
| of PDCCH    |             |             |             |             |
| monitoring  |             |             |             |             |
| when not    |             |             |             |             |
| fully       |             |             |             |             |
| aligned     |             |             |             |             |
| with PDCCH  |             |             |             |             |
| periods     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| RP-210700:  | 1521        | 1           | Release 14  |             |
| Recommended |             |             |             |             |
| bit rate    |             |             |             |             |
| query       |             |             |             |             |
| handling at |             |             |             |             |
| MAC reset   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| RP-220472:  | 1535        | 1           | Release 14  |             |
| I           |             |             |             |             |
| ntroduction |             |             |             |             |
| of carrier  |             |             |             |             |
| specific    |             |             |             |             |
| NRSRP       |             |             |             |             |
| thresholds  |             |             |             |             |
| for NPRACH  |             |             |             |             |
| resource    |             |             |             |             |
| selection   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: In  |             |             |             |             |
| case a CR   |             |             |             |             |
| has mirror  |             |             |             |             |
| CR(s), the  |             |             |             |             |
| mirror      |             |             |             |             |
| CR(s) are   |             |             |             |             |
| not listed. |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE 2: The |             |             |             |             |
| Additional  |             |             |             |             |
| Information |             |             |             |             |
| column      |             |             |             |             |
| briefly     |             |             |             |             |
| describes   |             |             |             |             |
| the content |             |             |             |             |
| of a CR in  |             |             |             |             |
| cases where |             |             |             |             |
| the CR      |             |             |             |             |
| title may   |             |             |             |             |
| not be      |             |             |             |             |
| descriptive |             |             |             |             |
| enough. If  |             |             |             |             |
| the CR is   |             |             |             |             |
| descriptive |             |             |             |             |
| enough,     |             |             |             |             |
| then the    |             |             |             |             |
| Additional  |             |             |             |             |
| Information |             |             |             |             |
| column may  |             |             |             |             |
| be left     |             |             |             |             |
| blank.      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

######## Annex E (informative): Change history

+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| Change |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
| h      |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
| istory |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| Date   | TSG \# | TSG    | CR   | Rev | Cat | Sub    | New    |
|        |        | Doc.   |      |     |     | ject/C | v      |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | omment | ersion |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RAN2\  | R2-    |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
| 007-06 | #58bis | 072710 |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | otocol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pecifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ba     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | seline |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RAN2\  | R2-    |      |     |     | Text   | 0.1.0  |
| 007-06 | #58bis | 072912 |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 72708) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Text   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for DL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 72707) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Text   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 72640) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Text   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | L      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 72643) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RAN2\  | R2-    |      |     |     | Basic  | 0.1.1  |
| 007-06 | #58bis | 072994 |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | str    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ucture |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 72983) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | u      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pdates |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ti     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | me-fre |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | quency |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | onfigu |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 72993) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Agr    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | assoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 72993) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on RA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sponse |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 72993) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RA     | R2-    |      |     |     | R      | 0.2.0  |
| 007-08 | N2\#59 | 073715 |      |     |     | emoved |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ref    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erence |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | non-ex |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | isting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | table  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 73473) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Inc    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orrect |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | apping |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | l      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tra    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nsport |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 73473) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Un-nec |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essary |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | error  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ch     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ecking |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 73473) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | emoval |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ref    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erence |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edback |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 73473) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | In     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ternal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | va     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | riable |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | name   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 73473) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | case   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | succ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essful |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-0   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 73473) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RA     | R2-    |      |     |     | Text   | 0.2.1  |
| 007-09 | N2\#59 | 073885 |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Text   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TDD    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Text   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grants |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | R      | RP-    |      |     |     | Clean  | 1.0.0  |
| 007-09 | AN\#37 | 070688 |      |     |     | v      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ersion |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | infor  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RAN2\  | R2-    |      |     |     | Edi    | 1.1.0  |
| 007-10 | #59bis | 074530 |      |     |     | torial |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | update |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Edi    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tor\'s |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | notes  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Tdoc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-07  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 4211). |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RA     | R2-    |      |     |     | Agre   | 1.1.1  |
| 007-11 | N2\#60 | 075093 |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | format |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 74536) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 74536) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RA     | R2-    |      |     |     | Endor  | 1.2.0  |
| 007-11 | N2\#60 | 075243 |      |     |     | sement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | v1.1.1 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | emoval |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of FFS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CCCH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | exi    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | stence |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RA     | R2-    |      |     |     | Agr    | 1.3.0  |
| 007-11 | N2\#60 | 075488 |      |     |     | eement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | id     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | entity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | used   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sponse |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 75038) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Agr    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Local  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Nack1  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 74949) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 75432) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 75432) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sem    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | i-pers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | istent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sche   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | duling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 75432, |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 3      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 6.300) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR/SR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iggers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 75432) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on BSR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ntents |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 75432) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dvance |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | prin   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ciples |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (3     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 6.300) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (3     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 6.300) |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P-BCH, |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | D-BCH, |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PCH    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (R2-0  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 75246) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-38  | RP-    |      |     |     | Clean  | 2.0.0  |
| 007-11 |        | 070917 |      |     |     | ve     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rsion, |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pre    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sented |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at TSG |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAN-38 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ap     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | proval |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-38  | \-     |      |     |     | Ap     | 8.0.0  |
| 007-12 |        |        |      |     |     | proved |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at TSG |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAN-38 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | placed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | under  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | change |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-39  | RP-    | 0001 | 2   |     | CR to  | 8.1.0  |
| 008-03 |        | 080162 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | E-UTRA |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | otocol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pecifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | update |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-40  | RP-    | 0002 | 1   |     | 36.321 | 8.2.0  |
| 008-05 |        | 080410 |      |     |     | CR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vering |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAN2   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | #61bis |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RA     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | N2\#62 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-41  | RP-    | 0003 | \-  |     | C      | 8.3.0  |
| 008-09 |        | 080690 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | data   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ava    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ilable |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | trig   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gering |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0004 | \-  |     | CR to  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ailure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | indi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | after  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aximum |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | number |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ransmi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ssions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0005 | 4   |     | Cl     | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of DL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Data   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Tr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ansfer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (SCH,  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SR)    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0006 | \-  |     | CR to  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Buffer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | size   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | levels |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0007 | \-  |     | Cl     | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DRX |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0008 | \-  |     | C      | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on UE  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | be     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | havior |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | conf   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | igured |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | measu  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gaps   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0009 | 3   |     | Corr   | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adding |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0010 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to UE  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | he     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adroom |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | report |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LTE    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0011 | \-  |     | Corre  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on BSR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0012 | \-  |     | CR to  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | REL-8  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Format |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of UL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grant  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | M      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essage |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 2      |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0015 | \-  |     | CR to  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | REL-8  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUSCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RNTIs  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0016 | \-  |     | CR to  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | REL-8  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | u      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | niform |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | b      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ackoff |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0017 | 1   |     | E-UTRA | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | otocol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pecifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | update |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0020 | \-  |     | TP for | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | number |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cesses |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MIMO   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0022 | \-  |     | Update | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | of MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ded    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | icated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | expiry |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0027 | \-  |     | Ha     | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Sem    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | i-Pers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | istent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grants |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | assig  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nments |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0051 | 1   |     | Corre  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lating |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0058 | 1   |     | UL     | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0071 | 2   |     | Corre  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lating |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | partit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioning |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0091 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sponse |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | beh    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aviour |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0103 | \-  |     | Upper  | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | limit  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | l      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | id     |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-41  | RP-    | 0104 | \-  |     | Cl     | 8.3.0  |
|        |        | 080690 |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at TAT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | expiry |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-42  | RP-    | 0105 | \-  |     | CR0105 | 8.4.0  |
| 008-12 |        | 081018 |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | riodic |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Start  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0106 | 1   |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R1 of  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR0106 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ref    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erence |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0107 | 1   |     | CR     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | 0107   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Intera |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | b      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etween |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | measu  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gap    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg3   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0108 | 2   |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R1 of  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR0108 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Values |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0109 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lating |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | equal  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | prio   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rities |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0110 | \-  |     | CR     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | 0110   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to PHR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0112 | 1   |     | CR     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | 0112r1 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BCCH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0113 | \-  |     | Cont   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0114 | \-  |     | PCH    | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0115 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | assig  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nments |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grants |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0116 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0117 | 2   |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R1 of  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR0117 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on on  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Cl     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Repet  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | itions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0118 | 2   |     | C      | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081078 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adding |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | value  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0119 | \-  |     | CR     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | 0119   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on TTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Bu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0120 | 1   |     | C      | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Active |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Time   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0121 | 4   |     | Text   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ded    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | icated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Assi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gnment |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0122 | \-  |     | CR0122 | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | M      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essage |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 3      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0123 | 1   |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | revent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | wrong  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | by     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ad     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aptive |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommand |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0124 | \-  |     | Bucket | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | Size   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Par    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ameter |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0125 | 2   |     | CR     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | 0125r2 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Mu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ltiple |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0127 | \-  |     | CR0127 | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pre    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ambles |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lab    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0128 | 1   |     | CR     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | 0128r1 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erging |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 0126r0 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 0128r0 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0129 | 1   |     | CR     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | 0129r1 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to PDU |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Format |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0130 | \-  |     | CQI/   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | SRS/   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PMI/RI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | during |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | active |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | time   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0131 | 1   |     | NDI    | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg4   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ca     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rrying |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ID     |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0132 | 1   |     | CR0132 | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0133 | \-  |     | C      | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | about  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rest   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | riodic |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0134 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to RA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ini    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tiated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | by eNB |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | order  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0135 | 1   |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | trig   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gering |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | con    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dition |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0136 | \-  |     | CR     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | 0136   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to UL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg3   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0137 | 2   |     | SPS    | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | occ    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | asions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0138 | \-  |     | Robu   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | stness |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Buffer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Status |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0139 | \-  |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR to  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on UL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Measu  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Gaps   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0142 | 1   |     | TAT    | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0143 | 1   |     | SRS    | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CQI    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Res    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ources |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elease |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | upon   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TAT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Expiry |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0157 | 1   |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR to  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0162 | 1   |     | BSR    | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | format |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | empty  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | b      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uffers |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0165 | \-  |     | TTI    | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | Bu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | onfigu |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0166 | 1   |     | Corre  | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sem    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | i-pers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | istent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sche   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | duling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0167 | 2   |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | iotiti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0168 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | st     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of TA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0173 | 1   |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR to  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | im     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | plicit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elease |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on UL  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0174 | \-  |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR to  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Measu  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gaps   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0175 | \-  |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR to  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | served |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bits   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zero   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0185 | \-  |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | oposed |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR to  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \[R    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | el-8\] |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | esetRe |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | config |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Option |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 2      |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0188 | 2   |     | RV     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0189 | \-  |     | Corre  | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0198 | \-  |     | Number | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cesses |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MIMO   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0201 | \-  |     | Corre  | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0206 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PD     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CCH-su |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bframe |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0211 | 1   |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oexist |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SP     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | I-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | or     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A-RNTI |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0220 | \-  |     | Ex     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | plicit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elease |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of SPS |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0225 | 2   |     | L      | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | inking |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ID     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0231 | \-  |     | Bucket | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | Par    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ameter |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Update |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0232 | 1   |     | C      | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | "PDCCH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ind    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | icates |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a new  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ansmis |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sion\" |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0233 | 1   |     | Edi    | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | torial |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0236 | \-  |     | RB     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | susp   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ension |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ntents |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0239 | \-  |     | RV     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0240 | 2   |     | Pr     | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | group  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0241 | \-  |     | Use of | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ded    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | icated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pre    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ambles |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | after  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HO     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mplete |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0242 | \-  |     | Introd | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RTT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-42  | RP-    | 0243 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.4.0  |
|        |        | 081018 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | onfigu |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-43  | RP-    | 0245 | \-  |     | CR to  | 8.5.0  |
| 009-03 |        | 090128 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on BSR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0246 | 2   |     | F      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | reeing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | served |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RNTIs  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0247 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | reset  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0248 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | In     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | itiali |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0249 | \-  |     | Local  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | N      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ACKing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Optio  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nality |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0250 | 1   |     | Po     | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | sition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | B      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ackoff |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ind    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | icator |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sub    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | header |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0251 | \-  |     | M      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | issing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | served |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bit    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0252 | \-  |     | E      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | xpired |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TAT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUSCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0253 | \-  |     | E      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | xpired |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TAT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edback |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0254 | 1   |     | C      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ounter |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R2-    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 090969 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Mana   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | buffer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TAT    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0255 | \-  |     | HARQ   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | Fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edback |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0256 | \-  |     | Corre  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | redu   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndancy |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | v      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ersion |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | system |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | infor  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0257 | \-  |     | M      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | apping |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RNTIs  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dif    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ferent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tra    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nsport |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ch     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | annels |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0258 | \-  |     | DRX    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | and UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ret    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ransmi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ssions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0259 | \-  |     | Defi   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Short  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Cycle  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0260 | \-  |     | Small  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RACH   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0261 | \-  |     | Proc   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | essing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essage |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0262 | \-  |     | Corre  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0263 | \-  |     | M      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | issing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | con    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | unsucc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essful |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg2   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0264 | 1   |     | Corre  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lating |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | quired |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | inputs |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0265 | \-  |     | Bucket | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | Par    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ameter |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Update |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0266 | 2   |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tri    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ggered |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PHR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0267 | \-  |     | SPS    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elease |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | D-SR   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ailure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0269 | 2   |     | NDI    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | when   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | measu  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gap    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | occ    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | assion |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ollide |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0270 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lating |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | order  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0271 | \-  |     | Error  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | Ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0272 | \-  |     | V      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | arious |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cl     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | /corre |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TS     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0273 | 1   |     | Disass | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | embly, |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | De     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | multip |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lexing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Multip |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lexing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fun    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0274 | 1   |     | M      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0275 | 2   |     | CR on  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | Intera |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | b      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etween |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg3   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TTI    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0276 | \-  |     | TTI    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | Bu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0278 | 1   |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to BSR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erving |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cell   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | change |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0279 | 1   |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elease |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of SPS |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0280 | 2   |     | Usage  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | of RRC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Para   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | meters |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0281 | \-  |     | C      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | status |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0282 | 1   |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sub    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | header |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | descr  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iption |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0283 | 1   |     | UE     | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | beh    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aviour |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CUR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RENT\_ |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TX\_NB |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eaches |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aximum |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | value  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0285 | \-  |     | Rep    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | During |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0289 | \-  |     | NDI    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | after  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0290 | 1   |     | Ded    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | icated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | after  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ailure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0292 | \-  |     | NDI    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grant  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | M      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essage |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 2      |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0293 | 1   |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lating |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BCCH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0300 | 1   |     | Corre  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg3   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | usage  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0303 | \-  |     | PRACH  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | must   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | use    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | prach- |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Config |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uratio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nIndex |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0305 | \-  |     | C      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RETX   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \_BSR\ |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | _TIMER |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0307 | 3   |     | MAC    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | Str    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ucture |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in UE  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Side   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0308 | \-  |     | C      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0314 | \-  |     | C      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0316 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on BSR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0318 | 1   |     | C      | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | onfigu |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | unters |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0320 | \-  |     | HARQ   | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | fee    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dback, |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CQI/   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PMI/RI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SRS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ransmi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ssions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | measu  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gaps   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0324 | \-  |     | MAC    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sub    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | header |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orresp |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | onding |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adding |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0333 | \-  |     | CR On  | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | B      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ackoff |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | table  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0334 | 3   |     | TTI    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | Bu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-43  | RP-    | 0341 | 1   |     | Enf    | 8.5.0  |
|        |        | 090128 |      |     |     | orcing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | new    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | after  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fl     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ushing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-44  | RP-    | 0342 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.6.0  |
| 009-06 |        | 090513 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edback |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0343 | 1   |     | C      | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DL     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ssignm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ent/UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grant  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in SPS |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0344 | 1   |     | PHR    | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | after  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndover |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0346 | 2   |     | MAC    | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg2   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0347 | 2   |     | MAC    | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | Error  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0348 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on SR  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cancel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0349 | 1   |     | Corr   | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RETX   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | \_BSR\ |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | _TIMER |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0350 | 1   |     | CR to  | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on UL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Im     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | plicit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elease |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0351 | 2   |     | V      | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | arious |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0369 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Uplink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grant  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | by     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tem    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | porary |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C-RNTI |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0370 | \-  |     | C      | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | simult |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C-RNTI |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0374 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timeAl |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ignmen |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | va     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lidity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0376 | 1   |     | CR for | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adding |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-44  | RP-    | 0377 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.6.0  |
|        |        | 090513 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dup    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | licate |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of TA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommand |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (2^nd^ |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ethod) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-45  | RP-    | 0379 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.7.0  |
| 009-09 |        | 090906 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to NDI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sem    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | antics |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-45  | RP-    | 0380 | 1   |     | Minor  | 8.7.0  |
|        |        | 090906 |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-45  | RP-    | 0381 | 2   |     | UE     | 8.7.0  |
|        |        | 090906 |      |     |     | beh    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aviour |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | when   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBSFN  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | su     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bframe |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and a  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | conf   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | igured |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | do     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | wnlink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | assi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gnment |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ollide |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-45  | RP-    | 0399 | \-  |     | Corr   | 8.7.0  |
|        |        | 090906 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ID for |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DL SPS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ret    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ransmi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ssions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-45  | RP-    | 0390 | 3   |     | Impro  | 9.0.0  |
| 009-09 |        | 090934 |      |     |     | vement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cancel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of SR  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-45  | RP-    | 0396 | \-  |     | Pe     | 9.0.0  |
|        |        | 090934 |      |     |     | riodic |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CQI/   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PMI/RI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | asking |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-46  | RP-    | 0401 | 2   |     | Cap    | 9.1.0  |
| 009-12 |        | 091341 |      |     |     | turing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBMS   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | agre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-46  | RP-    | 0403 | 2   |     | C      | 9.1.0  |
|        |        | 091314 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on BSR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-46  | RP-    | 0404 | \-  |     | Corr   | 9.1.0  |
|        |        | 091346 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ID for |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DL SPS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-46  | RP-    | 0406 | \-  |     | RNTI   | 9.1.0  |
|        |        | 091314 |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CCCH   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-46  | RP-    | 0407 | 1   |     | SR     | 9.1.0  |
|        |        | 091346 |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ohibit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hanism |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-46  | RP-    | 0409 | \-  |     | C      | 9.1.0  |
|        |        | 091346 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | moni   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | toring |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-46  | RP-    | 0410 | \-  |     | Introd | 9.1.0  |
|        |        | 091346 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of SR  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ohibit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-47  | RP-    | 0414 | \-  |     | Corr   | 9.2.0  |
| 010-03 |        | 100305 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBMS   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sche   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | duling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | termi  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nology |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-47  | RP-    | 0415 | \-  |     | Corre  | 9.2.0  |
|        |        | 100305 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBMS   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-47  | RP-    | 0421 | 1   |     | Error  | 9.2.0  |
|        |        | 100305 |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBMS   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-47  | RP-    | 0422 | \-  |     | Re     | 9.2.0  |
|        |        | 100308 |      |     |     | naming |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR as  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | conse  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | quence |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ASN.1  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | review |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-48  | RP-    | 0424 | \-  |     | C      | 9.3.0  |
| 010-06 |        | 100536 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on UE  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | beh    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aviour |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | w.r.t  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cycle  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | change |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | onD    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uratio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | test   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Proc  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edural |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hange) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-48  | RP-    | 0425 | 1   |     | Corr   | 9.3.0  |
|        |        | 100554 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBMS   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | descr  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iption |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-48  | RP-    | 0426 | \-  |     | Corr   | 9.3.0  |
|        |        | 100556 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | trig   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gering |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-48  | RP-    | 0430 | \-  |     | Proc   | 9.3.0  |
|        |        | 100536 |      |     |     | essing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essage |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-50  | RP-    | 0436 | 2   |     | Introd | 10.0.0 |
| 010-12 |        | 101226 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Aggre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-50  | RP-    | 0437 | 1   |     | Introd | 10.0.0 |
|        |        | 101228 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | relays |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-50  | RP-    | 0447 | \-  |     | HARQ   | 10.0.0 |
|        |        | 101225 |      |     |     | ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ltiple |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ntenna |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-51  | RP-    | 0449 | \-  |     | PHR    | 10.1.0 |
| 011-03 |        | 110280 |      |     |     | T      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Red    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Due to |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Mana   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gement |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-51  | RP-    | 0450 | 1   |     | Power  | 10.1.0 |
|        |        | 110289 |      |     |     | He     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adroom |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-51  | RP-    | 0451 | \-  |     | Cancel | 10.1.0 |
|        |        | 110289 |      |     |     | lation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of BSR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-51  | RP-    | 0453 | 1   |     | Cou    | 10.1.0 |
|        |        | 110289 |      |     |     | nterpr |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oposal |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Aggre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | unctio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nality |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-51  | RP-    | 0454 | \-  |     | Adding | 10.1.0 |
|        |        | 110280 |      |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Mana   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | indi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in PHR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-51  | RP-    | 0457 | 2   |     | CR on  | 10.1.0 |
|        |        | 110289 |      |     |     | SCell  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Acti   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-51  | RP-    | 0461 | 2   |     | Unifi  | 10.1.0 |
|        |        | 110289 |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ex     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tended |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PHR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ormats |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-51  | RP-    | 0465 | 1   |     | C      | 10.1.0 |
|        |        | 110289 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for CA |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TTI    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-52  | RP-    | 0466 | \-  |     | CQI    | 10.2.0 |
| 011-06 |        | 110846 |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | deacti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0467 | 2   |     | M      | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110846 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0468 | \-  |     | P      | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110846 |      |     |     | cmax,c |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | type 2 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PH     |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0469 | \-  |     | Type   | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110848 |      |     |     | -1-tri |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ggered |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SRS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | indep  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | endent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of DRX |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0470 | \-  |     | UL     | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110839 |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ransmi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ssions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | when   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timeAl |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ignmen |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | is not |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | unning |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0478 | 1   |     | Cl     | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110846 |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to Ci  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | field  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CE on  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CA     |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0488 | \-  |     | C      | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110846 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adding |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | beh    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aviour |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0489 | \-  |     | SPS    | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110834 |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBSFN  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sub    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | frames |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0490 | \-  |     | Power  | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110839 |      |     |     | mana   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PHR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | trig   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gering |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | con    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dition |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-52  | RP-    | 0491 | \-  |     | Cl     | 10.2.0 |
|        |        | 110839 |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Mana   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-53  | RP-    | 0494 | 1   |     | Cl     | 10.3.0 |
| 011-09 |        | 111280 |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on MCH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Stop   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MTCH   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-53  | RP-    | 0496 | \-  |     | C      | 10.3.0 |
|        |        | 111283 |      |     |     | onfigu |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | extene |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dedBSR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -sizes |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-53  | RP-    | 0502 | \-  |     | CR to  | 10.3.0 |
|        |        | 111297 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Small  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | par    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ameter |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-53  | RP-    | 0503 | 1   |     | Corre  | 10.3.0 |
|        |        | 111283 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CMAX,c |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | field  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ex     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tended |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PHR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-54  | RP-    | 0516 | 1   |     | UE     | 10.4.0 |
| 011-12 |        | 111714 |      |     |     | soft   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | buffer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-54  | RP-    | 0523 | \-  |     | Corr   | 10.4.0 |
|        |        | 111716 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | deter  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mining |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | occ    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | asions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-54  | RP-    | 0526 | 1   |     | C      | 10.4.0 |
|        |        | 111605 |      |     |     | SI/SRS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | state  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | trans  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | itions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-54  | RP-    | 0527 | \-  |     | C      | 10.4.0 |
|        |        | 111606 |      |     |     | SI/SRS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | unex   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pected |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Active |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Time   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | st     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | opping |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-55  | RP-    | 0539 | \-  |     | Corr   | 10.5.0 |
| 012-03 |        | 120321 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | multip |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lexing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | as     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sembly |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-57  | RP-    | 0559 | \-  |     | P bit  | 10.6.0 |
| 012-09 |        | 121395 |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ex     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tended |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PHR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-57  | RP-    | 0577 | 1   |     | De     | 10.6.0 |
|        |        | 121395 |      |     |     | adlock |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-57  | RP-    | 0558 | \-  |     | C      | 11.0.0 |
|        |        | 121382 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Measu  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Gap    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-57  | RP-    | 0572 | 1   |     | Introd | 11.0.0 |
|        |        | 121377 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of CA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-57  | RP-    | 0581 | \-  |     | C      | 11.0.0 |
|        |        | 121382 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of TA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | value  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | maint  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enance |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at TA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | expiry |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-58  | RP-    | 0583 | \-  |     | C      | 11.1.0 |
| 012-12 |        | 121936 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Relay  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-58  | RP-    | 0585 | \-  |     | C      | 11.1.0 |
|        |        | 121936 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on V   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | field  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ex     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tended |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PHR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-58  | RP-    | 0586 | 1   |     | C      | 11.1.0 |
|        |        | 121951 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to CA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhan  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-58  | RP-    | 0588 | \-  |     | C      | 11.1.0 |
|        |        | 121957 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Note   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in 5.2 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-58  | RP-    | 0590 | \-  |     | TAG    | 11.1.0 |
|        |        | 121951 |      |     |     | A      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cronym |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-58  | RP-    | 0594 | \-  |     | Corre  | 11.1.0 |
|        |        | 121951 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CA     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -enhan |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-58  | RP-    | 0599 | \-  |     | CR on  | 11.1.0 |
|        |        | 121956 |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | layer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | upport |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ePDCCH |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-58  | RP-    | 0624 | 2   |     | CR to  | 11.1.0 |
|        |        | 121957 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Annex  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timers |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-59  | RP-    | 0629 | 2   |     | Re     | 11.2.0 |
| 013-03 |        | 130248 |      |     |     | moving |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | optio  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nality |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SI/SRS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | during |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tra    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nsient |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | state  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-59  | RP-    | 0630 | \-  |     | C      | 11.2.0 |
|        |        | 130245 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PD     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CCH-su |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bframe |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | half-  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | duplex |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TDD UE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-59  | RP-    | 0649 | \-  |     | Draft  | 11.2.0 |
|        |        | 130248 |      |     |     | CR to  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36 321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PD     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CCH-su |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bframe |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rel-11 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-59  | RP-    | 0659 | \-  |     | Corr   | 11.2.0 |
|        |        | 130241 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TM10   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | u      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nicast |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | upport |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBSFN  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sub    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | frames |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-59  | RP-    | 0661 | \-  |     | C      | 11.2.0 |
|        |        | 130291 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TDD    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-60  | RP-    | 0663 | 2   |     | HARQ   | 11.3.0 |
| 013-06 |        | 130805 |      |     |     | RTT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-60  | RP-    | 0664 | \-  |     | C      | 11.3.0 |
|        |        | 130808 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PD     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CCH-su |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bframe |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TDD UE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-60  | RP-    | 0665 | \-  |     | Corr   | 11.3.0 |
|        |        | 130809 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | drxR   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etrans |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | missio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nTimer |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-60  | RP-    | 0667 | \-  |     | F      | 11.3.0 |
|        |        | 130809 |      |     |     | urther |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | issues |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | moving |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | optio  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nality |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SI/SRS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | during |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tra    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nsient |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | state  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-60  | RP-    | 0670 | \-  |     | Rel-11 | 11.3.0 |
|        |        | 130804 |      |     |     | CR on  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SCell  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | acti   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timing |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-62  | RP-    | 0687 | \-  |     | C      | 11.4.0 |
| 013-12 |        | 131989 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edback |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SCell  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | activ  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ation/ |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | deacti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommand |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-62  | RP-    | 0690 | \-  |     | C      | 12.0.0 |
|        |        | 132002 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | He     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adroom |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-63  | RP-    | 0709 | \-  |     | BCCH   | 12.1.0 |
| 014-03 |        | 140355 |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBMS   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on any |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | conf   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | igured |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | or     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | config |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | urable |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SCell  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-63  | RP-    | 0705 | 1   |     | Long   | 12.1.0 |
|        |        | 140362 |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommand |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | E      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lement |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-64  | RP-    | 0714 | \-  |     | Alter  | 12.2.0 |
| 014-06 |        | 140888 |      |     |     | native |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 1:     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Introd |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | F      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DD/TDD |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CA     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | into   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-64  | RP-    | 0713 | 1   |     | Introd | 12.2.0 |
|        |        | 140884 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of TDD |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eITMA  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-64  | \-     | \-   | \-  |     | Edi    | 12.2.1 |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | torial |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | u      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pdates |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-65  | RP-    | 0732 | 1   |     | Introd | 12.3.0 |
| 014-09 |        | 141506 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of low |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | comp   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lexity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UEs in |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TS     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-66  | RP-    | 0739 | \-  |     | Ca     | 12.4.0 |
| 014-12 |        | 142129 |      |     |     | tegory |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 0      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | report |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg3   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-66  | RP-    | 0749 | \-  |     | Corr   | 12.4.0 |
|        |        | 142140 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-66  | RP-    | 0748 | \-  |     | Pr     | 12.4.0 |
|        |        | 142140 |      |     |     | ohibit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for SR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-66  | RP-    | 0740 | 1   |     | Introd | 12.4.0 |
|        |        | 142135 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dual   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | connec |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tivity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-67  | RP-    | 0751 | \-  |     | C      | 12.5.0 |
| 015-03 |        | 150373 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | L      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in DC  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-67  | RP-    | 0762 | 1   |     | Introd | 12.5.0 |
|        |        | 150375 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MBMS   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cong   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | estion |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mana   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Public |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Safety |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Group  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Call   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-67  | RP-    | 0755 | 1   |     | Introd | 12.5.0 |
|        |        | 150374 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ProSe  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-67  | RP-    | 0763 | 2   |     | Uplink | 12.5.0 |
|        |        | 150371 |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | time   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | diff   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erence |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-68  | RP-    | 0764 | \-  |     | SL-DCH | 12.6.0 |
| 015-06 |        | 150921 |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | auto   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nomous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | allo   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mode   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-68  | RP-    | 0766 | \-  |     | Minor  | 12.6.0 |
|        |        | 150921 |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ProSe  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-68  | RP-    | 0767 | \-  |     | C      | 12.6.0 |
|        |        | 150921 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | deacti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-68  | RP-    | 0768 | \-  |     | Ha     | 12.6.0 |
|        |        | 150916 |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | err    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDU on |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MCH    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-68  | RP-    | 0769 | \-  |     | Corre  | 12.6.0 |
|        |        | 150921 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ProSe  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-68  | RP-    | 0772 | \-  |     | Corr   | 12.6.0 |
|        |        | 150921 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | figure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | str    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ucture |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ov     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erview |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-68  | RP-    | 0782 | \-  |     | Pr     | 12.6.0 |
|        |        | 150923 |      |     |     | ohibit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for SR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-68  | RP-    | 0783 | \-  |     | Re     | 12.6.0 |
|        |        | 150921 |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SL-DCH |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-69  | RP-    | 0799 | 1   |     | Corr   | 12.7.0 |
| 015-09 |        | 151438 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Type 2 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PH     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-69  | RP-    | 0795 | 1   |     | Corre  | 12.7.0 |
|        |        | 151441 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cancel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of SL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-69  | RP-    | 0785 | 1   |     | Corre  | 12.7.0 |
|        |        | 151441 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-69  | RP-    | 0790 | 1   |     | M      | 12.7.0 |
|        |        | 151441 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-70  | RP-    | 0801 | \-  |     | Corr   | 12.8.0 |
| 015-12 |        | 152055 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | trans  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | parent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-70  | RP-    | 0802 | \-  |     | Corr   | 12.8.0 |
|        |        | 152053 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | header |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SL-SCH |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-70  | RP-    | 0805 | \-  |     | Corre  | 12.8.0 |
|        |        | 152053 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-70  | RP-    | 0811 | 2   |     | Introd | 13.0.0 |
| 015-12 |        | 152071 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Aggre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | beyond |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 5 CCs  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-70  | RP-    | 0806 | 2   |     | Introd | 13.0.0 |
|        |        | 152072 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eD2D   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-70  | RP-    | 0821 | 2   |     | Introd | 13.0.0 |
|        |        | 152078 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of LAA |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-70  | RP-    | 0815 | 2   |     | Introd | 13.0.0 |
|        |        | 152080 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-71  | RP-    | 0825 | 1   |     | Power  | 13.1.0 |
| 016-03 |        | 160470 |      |     |     | he     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adroom |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aggre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhan  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | beyond |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 5 CCs  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-71  | RP-    | 0837 | 1   |     | Corre  | 13.1.0 |
|        |        | 160454 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-71  | RP-    | 0844 | \-  |     | Corr   | 13.1.0 |
|        |        | 160462 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pcmax  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and PH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | field  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-71  | RP-    | 0845 | 2   |     | Introd | 13.1.0 |
|        |        | 160453 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of low |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | comp   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lexity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UE and |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | en     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hanced |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | verage |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | atures |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-71  | RP-    | 0852 | \-  |     | M      | 13.1.0 |
|        |        | 160467 |      |     |     | aximum |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | diff   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erence |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dual   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | connec |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tivity |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-71  | RP-    | 0853 | 1   |     | Corre  | 13.1.0 |
|        |        | 160470 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pecifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-72  | RP-    | 0854 | \-  |     | Corre  | 13.2.0 |
| 016-06 |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MTCe   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0855 | 1   |     | Corre  | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | L      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0856 | \-  |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | proc   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edures |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MTC    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0857 | 3   |     | Func   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | tional |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ext    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ension |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | U      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -plane |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C-IoT  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | optimi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0858 | 2   |     | Corre  | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | l      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0859 | \-  |     | HARQ   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | RTT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0860 | \-  |     | Asynch | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ronous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | otocol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0861 | 1   |     | UL SPS | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dis    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | covery |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gap    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0862 | \-  |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BCCH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LC-MTC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0864 | 1   |     | Corre  | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | asynch |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ronous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0866 | \-  |     | C      | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sub    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -frame |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0867 | \-  |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | group  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | value  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | range  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0868 | 1   |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | repet  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | itions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | within |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bundle |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0869 | 2   |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on IR  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | v      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ersion |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0870 | \-  |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | asynch |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ronous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0873 | \-  |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essage |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lasses |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | l      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ch     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | annels |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0875 | \-  |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CE     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -level |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | amp-up |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for CE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mode A |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UEs    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0876 | 1   |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0877 | 2   |     | Minor  | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0878 | \-  |     | PRACH  | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0879 | 1   |     | SPS    | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | upport |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UEs    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0880 | 1   |     | SR     | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ohibit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UEs    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0881 | \-  |     | St     | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | arting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CE     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | level  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | order  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and HO |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0882 | \-  |     | C      | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | d      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etermi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PRACH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TDD |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0883 | 4   |     | Introd | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161081 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0884 | 2   |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | asynch |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ronous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0885 | \-  |     | Corre  | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | upport |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of CRI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-72  | RP-    | 0886 | \-  |     | Corr   | 13.2.0 |
|        |        | 161080 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tended |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UE     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | beh    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aviour |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timers |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-73  | RP-    | 0887 | 1   |     | Corre  | 13.3.0 |
| 016-09 |        | 161752 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Desti  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | In     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dexing |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0888 | 2   |     | C      | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161755 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BCCH   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0889 | 1   |     | C      | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161762 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0893 | \-  |     | DRX    | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161753 |      |     |     | ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LAA    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cells  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0901 | 2   |     | Corr   | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161752 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Dis    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | covery |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Gap    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0902 | 1   |     | C      | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161755 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on RA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | groups |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0907 | 2   |     | Corr   | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161758 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | issues |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0917 | 2   |     | C      | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161758 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0918 | 2   |     | onD    | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161758 |      |     |     | uratio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | start  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0921 | \-  |     | Repe   | 13.3.0 |
|        |        | 161755 |      |     |     | tition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ransmi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ssions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | within |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bundle |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in DL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MTC    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-73  | RP-    | 0920 | \-  |     | Introd | 14.0.0 |
| 016-09 |        | 161747 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of L2  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | L      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | atency |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | red    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tech   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | niques |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0922 | \-  |     | Intro  | 14.0.0 |
|        |        | 161745 |      |     |     | ducing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eLAA   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-73  | RP-    | 0923 | 1   |     | S      | 14.0.0 |
|        |        | 161746 |      |     |     | upport |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2V    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | se     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rvices |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | based  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on LTE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-74  | RP-    | 0924 | \-  |     | Corr   | 14.1.0 |
| 016-12 |        | 162314 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0929 | \-  |     | C      | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162314 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0931 | 1   |     | C      | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162315 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0933 | \-  |     | C      | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162317 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edback |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PSCell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SCell  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0947 | \-  |     | M      | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162328 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2V in |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TS     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0950 | 1   |     | Corr   | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162313 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mac-C  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ionRes |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | olutio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0952 | \-  |     | Corr   | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162313 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS in |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0959 | 1   |     | Corr   | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162314 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TS     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0960 | 2   |     | Introd | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162324 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of SRS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | swi    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tching |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LTE    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0962 | 1   |     | PD     | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162321 |      |     |     | CCH-su |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bframe |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LAA    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0963 | 1   |     | Moni   | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162321 |      |     |     | toring |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUSCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | B      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | while  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | not in |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Active |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Time   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0964 | \-  |     | C      | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162321 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUSCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | B      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | inac   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tivity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | st     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0968 | \-  |     | Corr   | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162314 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | trans  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | spe    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cified |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eriods |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0969 | 1   |     | Corr   | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162313 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | when   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fol    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | low-on |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | are    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ini    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tiated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | verage |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | en     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hanced |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mode   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0970 | \-  |     | Type2  | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162321 |      |     |     | PHR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eLAA   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0975 | 1   |     | Intro  | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162328 |      |     |     | ducing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | horter |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Reser  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eriodi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cities |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0976 | 2   |     | M      | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162328 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2V    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0977 | 1   |     | Ski    | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162329 |      |     |     | pUplin |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | kTxSPS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enable |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ad     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aptive |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ret    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ransmi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ssions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0985 |     |     | F      | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162314 |      |     |     | urther |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | order  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0987 | 1   |     | C      | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162314 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NPRACH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | res    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ources |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | supp   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mult   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | i-tone |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MSG3   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0989 | \-  |     | Corr   | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162313 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RTT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-74  | RP-    | 0990 |     |     | CR on  | 14.1.0 |
|        |        | 162329 |      |     |     | RV     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sk     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ipping |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-75  | RP-    | 0991 | 3   | B   | Intro  | 14.2.0 |
| 017-03 |        | 170636 |      |     |     | ducing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rel-14 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 0994 | \-  | A   | Corr   | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170655 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ban    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dwidth |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 0995 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170626 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oper   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eLAA   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 0996 | 2   | F   | Corr   | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170643 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2V    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 0999 | 2   | F   | Corre  | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170643 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Resel  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1002 | 1   | A   | C      | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170653 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1003 | 1   | F   | Defi   | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170643 |      |     |     | nition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | desti  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | index  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sli    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommuni |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1006 | \-  | A   | C      | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170655 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | L      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Group  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Id for |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1009 | 1   | A   | C      | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170656 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DPR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1012 | 1   | B   | Introd | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170642 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | data   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | inac   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tivity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1014 | 1   | A   | IOT    | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170653 |      |     |     | indi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | u      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nicast |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MPDCCH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | /PDSCH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | /PUSCH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fre    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | quency |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | h      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | opping |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1017 | 1   | B   | Introd | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170635 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LTE    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -based |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | se     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rvices |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1018 | 3   | B   | Introd | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170638 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Voice  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Video  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | verage |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1021 | 1   | B   | Intro  | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170629 |      |     |     | ducing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Activ  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ation/ |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Deacti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CSI-RS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eF     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | D-MIMO |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1024 | \-  | B   | Addi   | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170633 |      |     |     | tional |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | I-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | upport |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ded    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | icated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | FeMBMS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | system |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | broadc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | asting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1030 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170653 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on RV  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1035 | 4   | B   | Introd | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170630 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | preall |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ocated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uplink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grant  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in MAC |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1037 | \-  | A   | Pr     | 14.2.0 |
|        |        | 170656 |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | group  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | after  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ailure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-75  | RP-    | 1014 | 1   | A   | Cor    | 14.2.1 |
|        |        | 170653 |      |     |     | rected |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | an     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | im     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | plemen |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | error  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 1014r1 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-76  | RP-    | 1038 | 3   | F   | Intro  | 14.3.0 |
| 017-06 |        | 171226 |      |     |     | ducing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a new  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | resel  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommuni |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1053 | 2   | F   | C      | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171233 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the UE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Id     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | entity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | E      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lement |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1062 | 3   | F   | Small  | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171224 |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | REL-14 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1063 | 1   | F   | Ali    | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171223 |      |     |     | gnment |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | par    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ameter |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | names  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DRX    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C-MCCH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C-MTCH |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1068 | 2   | D   | Edi    | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171224 |      |     |     | torial |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1072 | 3   | A   | C      | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171244 |      |     |     | onfigu |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | groups |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for CE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | levels |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | groups |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A/B -- |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Alt2   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1076 | 2   | F   | C      | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171231 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UE     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | beh    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aviour |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | when   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | va     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lidity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUSCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | e      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | xpires |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1088 | 1   | F   | M      | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171227 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to V2X |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1094 | 1   | F   | Rem    | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171232 |      |     |     | aining |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | issues |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Activ  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ation/ |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Deacti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CSI-RS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | res    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ources |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eF     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | D-MIMO |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1096 | \-  | F   | Stop   | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171224 |      |     |     | con    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dition |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | drx-r  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etrans |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | missio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1097 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171224 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aximum |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | number |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cesses |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1105 | 1   | F   | Action | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171223 |      |     |     | upon   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | stop   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | indi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1108 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171228 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of L2  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | l      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | atency |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | red    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uction |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1109 | \-  | F   | S      | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171221 |      |     |     | I-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | number |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | feMBMS |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1113 | 2   | F   | Res    | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171224 |      |     |     | ources |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PRACH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tri    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ggered |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | by a   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | order  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eNB-   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | IoT(Op |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tion2) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1114 | \-  | A   | Corr   | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171244 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | termi  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nology |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of SI  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1116 | 1   | A   | RAR    | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171244 |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-76  | RP-    | 1123 | \-  | A   | Corre  | 14.3.0 |
|        |        | 171243 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Dis    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | covery |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Gap    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-77  | RP-    | 1143 | \-  | F   | M      | 14.4.0 |
| 017-09 |        | 171913 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | IoTenh |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | feMTC  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1144 | 2   | F   | Corr   | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171913 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on TAT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | H-less |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndover |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1147 | 2   | F   | Corre  | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171914 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommuni |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1155 | \-  | A   | Corr   | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171918 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on SR  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ohibit |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1156 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171913 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eLAA   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1160 | 1   | F   | RAR    | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171919 |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1164 | 1   | F   | C      | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171913 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on UE  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | beh    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aviour |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Reso   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lution |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | P      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adding |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1176 | 1   | A   | Corre  | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171920 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rel-13 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MTC    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1178 | \-  | F   | Corre  | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171911 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | refe   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rences |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1181 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171915 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ention |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | free   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1182 | 2   | C   | Introd | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171913 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elease |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Assi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | stance |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Indi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-77  | RP-    | 1184 | 1   | A   | C      | 14.4.0 |
|        |        | 171917 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on TAT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | estart |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | w      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ithout |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | valid  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TA     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | value  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-78  | RP-    | 1186 | 1   | F   | R      | 14.5.0 |
| 017-12 |        | 172617 |      |     |     | emoval |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of FFS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAI in |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-78  | RP-    | 1187 | 1   | F   | Minor  | 14.5.0 |
|        |        | 172616 |      |     |     | corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | IE of  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pusch- |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Config |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | feMTC  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-78  | RP-    | 1188 | 4   | F   | C      | 14.5.0 |
|        |        | 172617 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | index  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | order  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-78  | RP-    | 1189 | 2   | F   | Corr   | 14.5.0 |
|        |        | 172722 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ref    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erence |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | kPHICH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | value  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-78  | RP-    | 1190 | 2   | F   | Corre  | 14.5.0 |
|        |        | 172617 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to V2X |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | unctio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nality |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-78  | RP-    | 1194 | 2   | F   | Change | 14.5.0 |
|        |        | 172616 |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | upon   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mac-C  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ionRes |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | olutio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | expiry |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | FeMTC  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | e      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-78  | RP-    | 1199 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 14.5.0 |
|        |        | 172617 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-78  | RP-    | 1202 | 1   | F   | C      | 14.5.0 |
|        |        | 172616 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ave    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | raging |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | window |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAN    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | as     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sisted |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | codec  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rate   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adap   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-78  | RP-    | 1196 | 2   | B   | EN-DC  | 15.0.0 |
| 017-12 |        | 172614 |      |     |     | i      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mpacts |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to LTE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-79  | RP-    | 1213 | 1   | A   | Corr   | 15.1.0 |
| 018-03 |        | 180443 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | S      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | I-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | value  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | FeMBMS |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-79  | RP-    | 1218 | 1   | A   | C      | 15.1.0 |
|        |        | 180445 |      |     |     | orrect |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | introd |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ltiple |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cesses |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-79  | RP-    | 1230 | 1   | A   | C      | 15.1.0 |
|        |        | 180444 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | B      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ooking |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cesses |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-79  | RP-    | 1239 | 1   | A   | R      | 15.1.0 |
|        |        | 180443 |      |     |     | emoval |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Type3  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PH for |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | single |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | erving |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cell   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | case   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-79  | RP-    | 1242 | \-  | A   | MAC    | 15.1.0 |
|        |        | 180441 |      |     |     | Corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RRC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Resume |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-80  | RP-    | 1203 | 3   | B   | Introd | 15.2.0 |
| 018-07 |        | 181218 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sho    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rtened |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TTI    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | proc   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | essing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | time   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LTE    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1228 | 2   | A   | Corr   | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181230 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Entity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mod    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1243 | 5   | A   | C      | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181232 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DPR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Update |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1247 | 2   | F   | C      | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181215 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EN-DC  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1249 | 4   | B   | Introd | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181252 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of EDT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rel-15 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TS     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1262 | 2   | F   | C      | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181214 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | intro  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ducing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SUO    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | case1  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1267 | 3   | B   | Introd | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181248 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eV2X   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1272 | 2   | B   | Introd | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181252 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | urther |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1273 | 3   | B   | R      | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181224 |      |     |     | unning |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rel-15 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CR for |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (exc   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | luding |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EDT)   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1274 | 3   | B   | MAC    | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181250 |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | unctio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nality |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | euCA   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1279 | 1   | A   | C      | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181233 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | init   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | H-less |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nfigur |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1281 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181216 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EN-DC  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1283 | \-  | A   | Corr   | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181235 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | en     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hanced |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1285 | 1   | A   | Flush  | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181236 |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | buffer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | upon   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sk     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ipping |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a UL   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1286 | 1   | B   | Introd | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181254 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | inc    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | reased |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | number |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | E      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -UTRAN |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | data   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | b      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | earers |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1287 | \-  | F   | PHR    | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181214 |      |     |     | format |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EN-DC  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1289 | 1   | A   | Corre  | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181234 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to UL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and SL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V-RNTI |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1290 | 1   | B   | Int    | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181249 |      |     |     | roduce |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | feLAA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1293 | 1   | A   | Corr   | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181234 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eption |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1297 | 2   | A   | C      | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181232 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | timer  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | unting |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1300 | 2   | F   | Clar   | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181232 |      |     |     | ifying |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Period |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Defi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nition |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1302 | 2   | A   | Corr   | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181235 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | A-RNTI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Range  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Non    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Anchor |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-80  | RP-    | 1305 | 1   | B   | Introd | 15.2.0 |
|        |        | 181247 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ultra  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | liable |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Low    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | L      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | atency |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommuni |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LTE    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-81  | RP-    | 1309 | 1   | A   | Corr   | 15.3.0 |
| 018-09 |        | 181962 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on MCS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1311 | 1   | F   | CR to  | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181948 |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | larify |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aggre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gating |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ca     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rriers |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PC5 CA |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | syn    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | chroni |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Mode 3 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Opt1) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1312 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181948 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | format |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (Opt1) |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1321 | \-  | A   | Corr   | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181963 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | en     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hanced |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1322 | 1   | F   | C      | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181940 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Dual   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Connec |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tivity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PHR    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EN-DC  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1323 | 1   | F   | Corre  | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181945 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to TDD |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1324 | 2   | F   | Corr   | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181945 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to SR  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | BSR in |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1325 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181945 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NPRACH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | range  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1327 | 1   | F   | De     | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181961 |      |     |     | fining |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CH-Sub |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | frames |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UE     |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1328 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181943 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RTT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timers |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1330 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181948 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | l      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ogical |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hannel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LCP    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1336 | 1   | F   | C      | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181945 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | t      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rigger |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for SR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1337 | \-  | F   | M      | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181949 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edi    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | torial |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Ultra  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | liable |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Low    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | L      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | atency |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommuni |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1338 | 1   | F   | Co     | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181949 |      |     |     | nflict |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ltiple |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL SPS |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | co     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nfigur |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1340 | 1   | C   | Ali    | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181949 |      |     |     | gnment |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | CEs    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | b      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | etween |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LTE    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and NR |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1343 | \-  | A   | Corre  | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181962 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of SL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | u      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nknown |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | otocol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | data   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-81  | RP-    | 1351 | 1   | F   | M      | 15.3.0 |
|        |        | 181946 |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | corr   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | FeLAA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-82  | RP-    | 1355 | 3   | F   | Fl     | 15.4.0 |
| 018-12 |        | 182678 |      |     |     | ushing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | buffer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | resel  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1357 | 5   | F   | eV2X   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182678 |      |     |     | cl     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ean-up |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | except |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and SL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iotiri |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1359 | 4   | F   | MPDCCH | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182671 |      |     |     | moni   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | toring |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rec    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eiving |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ACK    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edback |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1361 | 2   | F   | Corre  | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182674 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | euCA   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1362 | 2   | F   | Corre  | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182681 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TDD in |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1363 | 4   | F   | Corre  | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182681 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to EDT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | defin  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ition, |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg3,  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | prea   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mbles, |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | header |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | str    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ucture |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1365 | 3   | F   | Corr   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182678 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on V2X |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommuni |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1366 | 2   | F   | Corr   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182674 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDU    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | subh   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eaders |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | inc    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | luding |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eLCID  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1370 | 4   | F   | Corr   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182681 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fa     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | llback |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cases  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UP-EDT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1383 | 4   | F   | UL and | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182678 |      |     |     | SL     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 3      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 6.321- |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | alt2   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1384 | 2   | F   | Msg3   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182681 |      |     |     | buffer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EDT in |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1386 | 1   | A   | Corr   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182680 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re-    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | transm |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ission |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1387 | 2   | F   | Corr   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182681 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | start  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of RAR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | window |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NPRACH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fmt2   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1389 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182679 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | FeLAA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in TS  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1392 | 1   | F   | HARQ   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182680 |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ID for |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | synch  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ronous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ope    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1393 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182653 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Dual   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Connec |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tivity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC CE |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1394 | \-  | F   | C      | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182653 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RTT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SUO    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | case 1 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1395 | 1   | F   | C      | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182678 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Mode-3 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Proc   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edures |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1396 | 2   | F   | C      | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182678 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCP   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Dupli  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1397 | 2   | F   | C      | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182678 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to TX  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | (r     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | e)-Sel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ommuni |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1400 | 1   | A   | CR to  | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182680 |      |     |     | TS     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orrect |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | amb    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iguity |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on bit |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rate   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | commen |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | index  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 0      |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-82  | RP-    | 1404 | 4   | F   | Corr   | 15.4.0 |
|        |        | 182667 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | proc   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edures |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EN-DC  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-83  | RP-    | 1407 | 3   | F   | Corr   | 15.5.0 |
| 019-03 |        | 190551 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on TX  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | capa   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bility |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | limi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | other  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iscell |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aneous |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | issues |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1408 | \-  | F   | Corre  | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190551 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to UL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ACK    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edback |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1412 | 3   | F   | C      | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190551 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on EDT |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pre    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ambles |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1415 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190551 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on the |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dorma  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ntSCel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lDeact |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ivatio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nTimer |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1420 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190551 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontent |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ionRes |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | olutio |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | nTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in EDT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1423 | 2   | F   | Corr   | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190549 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Recom  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mended |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bit    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rate   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | C      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ontrol |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | E      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lement |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1424 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190552 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on NDI |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ggling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | FeLAA  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1427 | 1   | A   | Corr   | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190549 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of DRX |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SC-PTM |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1428 | 1   | F   | Clear  | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190552 |      |     |     | SPS    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | res    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ources |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Scell  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1429 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190551 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Activ  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ation/ |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Deacti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SCells |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1432 | 1   | F   | CR on  | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190551 |      |     |     | PDCP   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dupli  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | elated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | oper   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | LCP    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | resel  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pro    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cedure |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-83  | RP-    | 1433 | 1   | F   | C      | 15.5.0 |
|        |        | 190540 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | om     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | itting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | d      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ynamic |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | haring |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | inc    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | apable |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UE     |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-84  | RP-    | 1411 | 2   | A   | Corr   | 15.6.0 |
| 019-06 |        | 191383 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | preall |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ocated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | grants |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | during |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | H-less |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HO     |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-84  | RP-    | 1440 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.6.0 |
|        |        | 191385 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on TX  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-84  | RP-    | 1441 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.6.0 |
|        |        | 191385 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DEL    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | TA\_PR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EAMBLE |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NPRACH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | format |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 2      |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-84  | RP-    | 1442 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 15.6.0 |
|        |        | 191385 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-84  | RP-    | 1443 | 5   | F   | Corr   | 15.6.0 |
|        |        | 191382 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | M      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | inimum |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Length |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of DL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RTT    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Timer  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-84  | RP-    | 1446 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 15.6.0 |
|        |        | 191384 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Random |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Access |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eamble |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | groups |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | EDT    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-84  | RP-    | 1447 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 15.6.0 |
|        |        | 191375 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | late   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | drop   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-84  | RP-    | 1450 | 1   | F   | C      | 15.6.0 |
|        |        | 191385 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Length |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | field  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | DPR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-84  | RP-    | 1452 | 1   | A   | C      | 15.6.0 |
|        |        | 191383 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | conf   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | igured |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-85  | RP-    | 1453 | 1   | F   | Nor    | 15.7.0 |
| 019-09 |        | 192198 |      |     |     | mative |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Annex  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of CRs |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Cont   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | aining |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Early  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | I      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mpleme |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ntable |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Fe     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | atures |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-86  | RP-    | 1457 | 4   | A   | C      | 15.8.0 |
| 019-12 |        | 192940 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on RA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Msg3   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUSCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-86  | RP-    | 1459 | 2   | F   | C      | 15.8.0 |
|        |        | 192941 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | moni   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | toring |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | when   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | not    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | fully  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ligned |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PDCCH  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eriods |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-86  | RP-    | 1462 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 15.8.0 |
|        |        | 192935 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | proc   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | edures |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in DC  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | onfigu |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-87  | RP-    | 1461 | 3   | B   | Introd | 16.0.0 |
| 020-03 |        | 200362 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | he     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | adroom |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rep    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | orting |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Addi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tional |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SRS    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-87  | R2-    | 1463 | 2   | B   | I      | 16.0.0 |
|        |        | 200364 |      |     |     | ntrodu |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | even   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | urther |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mo     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bility |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhan  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | E      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -UTRAN |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-87  | RP-    | 1464 | 1   | B   | Recom  | 16.0.0 |
|        |        | 200359 |      |     |     | mended |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Bit    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rate   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | /Query |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | FLUS   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MTSI   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-87  | RP-    | 1465 | 1   | B   | Introd | 16.0.0 |
|        |        | 200360 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | urther |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-87  | RP-    | 1466 | 1   | B   | Introd | 16.0.0 |
|        |        | 200361 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | addi   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | tional |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-87  | RP-    | 1467 | 1   | B   | Introd | 16.0.0 |
|        |        | 200346 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of 5G  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-88  | RP-    | 1472 | 2   | F   | Corre  | 16.1.0 |
| 020-07 |        | 201193 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rel-16 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NB-IoT |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-88  | RP-    | 1473 | 2   | F   | Corre  | 16.1.0 |
|        |        | 201193 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Rel-16 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eMTC   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-88  | RP-    | 1474 | 1   | B   | CR on  | 16.1.0 |
|        |        | 201195 |      |     |     | 36.321 |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | even   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | f      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | urther |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mo     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bility |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | enhan  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cement |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | E      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | -UTRAN |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-88  | RP-    | 1479 | 1   | A   | C      | 16.1.0 |
|        |        | 201168 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PHR |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | report |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | power  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | class  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 14dBm  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UE     |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-88  | RP-    | 1483 | 1   | A   | C      | 16.1.0 |
|        |        | 201168 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ded    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | icated |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | SR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HA     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RQ-ACK |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-88  | RP-    | 1484 | \-  | F   | Corre  | 16.1.0 |
|        |        | 201176 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to 5G  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-89  | RP-    | 1485 | 3   | F   | Corre  | 16.2.0 |
| 020-09 |        | 201927 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to 5G  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-89  | RP-    | 1495 | 1   | F   | Edi    | 16.2.0 |
|        |        | 201928 |      |     |     | torial |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | hanges |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-89  | RP-    | 1501 | \-  | A   | Corr   | 16.2.0 |
|        |        | 201935 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on PDU |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | gene   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ration |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for UL |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | s      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | patial |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | multip |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lexing |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | --     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Option |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | 1      |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-89  | RP-    | 1503 | 2   | F   | MAC    | 16.2.0 |
|        |        | 201928 |      |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-90  | RP-    | 1512 | 2   | A   | Corr   | 16.3.0 |
| 020-12 |        | 202780 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | l      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ch-Cel |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lRestr |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | iction |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-90  | RP-    | 1516 | 1   | F   | Corre  | 16.3.0 |
|        |        | 202769 |      |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL/SL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for 5G |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | V2X    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NR     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Si     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | delink |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-91  | RP-    | 1517 | 1   | F   | PDCCH  | 16.4.0 |
| 021-03 |        | 210698 |      |     |     | -based |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HA     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | RQ-ACK |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for a  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sp     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ecific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | HARQ   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rocess |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lti-TB |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sche   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | duling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-91  | RP-    | 1518 | 1   | F   | C      | 16.4.0 |
|        |        | 210698 |      |     |     | larifi |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | cation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on TA  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | vali   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | dation |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-91  | RP-    | 1521 | 1   | F   | Recom  | 16.4.0 |
|        |        | 210700 |      |     |     | mended |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | bit    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | rate   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | query  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ha     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ndling |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | at MAC |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Reset  |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-92  | RP-    | 1524 | 1   | F   | MAC    | 16.5.0 |
| 021-06 |        | 211479 |      |     |     | cl     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | PUR    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-92  | RP-    | 1525 | \-  | F   | CR on  | 16.5.0 |
|        |        | 211473 |      |     |     | LCP of |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | MAC    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | entity |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-93  | RP-    | 1526 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 16.6.0 |
| 021-09 |        | 212441 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | UL/SL  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pr     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ioriti |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | zation |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-95  | RP-    | 1534 | \-  | F   | Corr   | 16.7.0 |
| 022-03 |        | 220473 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pur-R  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | espons |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | eWindo |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | wTimer |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | emoval |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | pur-   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | Respon |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | seWind |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | owSize |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
|        | RP-95  | RP-    | 1535 | 1   | F   | Introd | 16.7.0 |
|        |        | 220472 |      |     |     | uction |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | c      |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | arrier |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sp     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ecific |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NRSRP  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | thre   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sholds |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | NPRACH |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | source |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sel    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | ection |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 2      | RP-96  | RP-    | 1539 | 1   | F   | Corr   | 16.8.0 |
| 022-06 |        | 221712 |      |     |     | ection |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | calcu  |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lating |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | number |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | of TBs |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | mu     |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | lti-TB |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | sche   |        |
|        |        |        |      |     |     | duling |        |
+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+-----+--------+--------+

Note: WORD version for TS 36.321 v12.4.0 was changed over from WORD 2003
to WORD 2007. Accordingly, some table formats may be converted due to
the impact of comparability mode but contents in the tables were
confirmed to be consistent.
