3GPP TS 36.323 V16.7.0 (2022-12)

Technical Specification

3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);

Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification

(Release 16)

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.

The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.

This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> LTE, E-UTRAN, radio
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 6

1 Scope 7

2 References 7

3 Definitions and abbreviations 8

3.1 Definitions 8

3.2 Abbreviations 8

4 General 9

4.1 Introduction 9

4.2 PDCP architecture 9

4.2.1 PDCP structure 9

4.2.2 PDCP entities 10

4.3 Services 13

4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers 13

4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers 13

4.4 Functions 14

4.5 Data available for transmission 14

5 PDCP procedures 16

5.1 PDCP Data Transfer Procedures 16

5.1.1 UL Data Transfer Procedures 16

5.1.2 DL Data Transfer Procedures 17

5.1.2.1 Procedures for DRBs 17

5.1.2.1.1 Void 17

5.1.2.1.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM when the reordering
function is not used 17

5.1.2.1.2a RN procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM 18

5.1.2.1.3 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM when the reordering
function is not used 19

5.1.2.1.3a RN procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM 19

5.1.2.1.4 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM or RLC UM, for LWA
bearers and SLRB when the reordering function is used 19

5.1.2.1.4.1 Procedures when a PDCP PDU is received from the lower layers
20

5.1.2.1.4.2 Procedures when *t-Reordering* expires 21

5.1.2.1.4.3 Procedures when the value of *t-Reordering* is reconfigured
22

5.1.2.2 Procedures for SRBs 22

5.1.2.2.1 Procedures for SRBs when the reordering function is not used
22

5.1.2.2.2 Procedures for SRBs when the reordering function is used 22

5.1.3 SL Data Transmission Procedures 23

5.1.4 SL Data Reception Procedures 23

5.2 Re-establishment procedure 23

5.2.1 UL Data Transfer Procedures 23

5.2.1.1 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM 23

5.2.1.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM 24

5.2.1.3 Procedures for SRBs 24

5.2.2 DL Data Transfer Procedures 25

5.2.2.1 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM while the reordering
function is not used 25

5.2.2.1a Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM while the reordering
function is used 25

5.2.2.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM when the reordering
function is not used 25

5.2.2.2a Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM when the reordering
function is used 26

5.2.2.3 Procedures for SRBs 26

5.2.2.4 Procedures for LWA bearers 26

5.3 PDCP Status Report 27

5.3.1 Transmit operation 27

5.3.2 Receive operation 27

5.4 PDCP discard 27

5.4a Duplicate PDCP discard 27

5.5 Robust Header Compression and Decompression 28

5.5.1 Supported header compression protocols and profiles 28

5.5.2 Configuration of ROHC 28

5.5.3 Protocol parameters 29

5.5.4 Header compression using ROHC 29

5.5.5 Header decompression using ROHC 30

5.5.6 PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet 30

5.5.6.1 Transmit Operation 30

5.5.6.2 Receive Operation 30

5.6 Ciphering and Deciphering 30

5.6.0 General 30

5.6.1 SL Ciphering and Deciphering for one-to-many communication 31

5.6.2 SL Ciphering and Deciphering for one-to-one communication 31

5.6.3 Handling of LWA end-marker PDCP Control PDU 31

5.6.3.1 Transmit operation 31

5.6.3.2 Receive Operation 31

5.7 Integrity Protection and Verification 32

5.8 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data 32

5.9 PDCP Data Recovery procedure 33

5.10 Status report for LWA 33

5.10.1 Transmit operation 33

5.10.2 LWA status report 34

5.10.3 Receive operation 34

5.11 Uplink Data compression and decompression 34

5.11.1 UDC protocol 34

5.11.2 Configuration of UDC 34

5.11.3 UDC header 34

5.11.4 Uplink data compression 34

5.11.5 Pre-defined dictionary 35

5.11.6 UDC buffer reset procedure 35

5.11.7 UDC checksum error handling 35

5.12 Uplink data switching 35

5.13 PDCP Reconfiguration 35

5.14 Ethernet header compression and decompression 36

5.14.1 Supported header compression protocols 36

5.14.2 Configuration of EHC 36

5.14.3 Protocol parameters 36

5.14.4 Header compression using EHC 36

5.14.5 Header decompression using EHC 36

5.14.6 PDCP Control PDU for EHC feedback packet 37

5.14.6.1 Transmit Operation 37

5.14.6.2 Receive Operation 37

5.14.7 Simultaneous configuration of ROHC and EHC 37

6 Protocol data units, formats and parameters 37

6.1 Protocol data units 37

6.1.1 PDCP Data PDU 37

6.1.2 PDCP Control PDU 38

6.2 Formats 38

6.2.1 General 38

6.2.2 Control plane PDCP Data PDU 38

6.2.3 User plane PDCP Data PDU with long PDCP SN (12 bits) 39

6.2.4 User plane PDCP Data PDU with short PDCP SN (7 bits) 39

6.2.5 PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet 39

6.2.6 PDCP Control PDU for PDCP status report 40

6.2.7 Void 41

6.2.8 RN user plane PDCP Data PDU with integrity protection 41

6.2.9 User plane PDCP Data PDU with extended PDCP SN (15 bits) 41

6.2.10 User plane PDCP Data PDU for SLRB 42

6.2.11 User plane PDCP Data PDU with further extended PDCP SN (18 bits)
43

6.2.12 PDCP Control PDU for LWA status report 43

6.2.13 PDCP Control PDU for LWA end-marker packet 45

6.2.14 User plane PDCP Data PDU with long PDCP SN (12 bits) for UDC 45

6.2.15 User plane PDCP Data PDU with extended PDCP SN (15 bits) for UDC
46

6.2.16 User plane PDCP Data PDU with further extended PDCP SN (18 bits)
for UDC 46

6.2.17 PDCP Control PDU for UDC feedback packet 46

6.2.18 PDCP Control PDU for EHC feedback packet 47

6.3 Parameters 47

6.3.1 General 47

6.3.2 PDCP SN 47

6.3.3 Data 47

6.3.4 MAC-I 48

6.3.5 COUNT 48

6.3.6 R 48

6.3.7 D/C 48

6.3.8 PDU type 48

6.3.9 FMS 49

6.3.10 Bitmap 49

6.3.11 Interspersed ROHC feedback packet 49

6.3.12 PGK Index 49

6.3.13 PTK Identity 50

6.3.14 SDU Type 50

6.3.15 K~D-sess~ ID 50

6.3.16 NMP 50

6.3.17 HRW 50

6.3.18 P 50

6.3.19 LSN 51

6.3.21 FU 51

6.3.22 FR 51

6.3.23 Checksum 51

6.3.24 FE 52

7 Variables, constants and timers 52

7.1 State variables 52

7.2 Timers 53

7.3 Constants 53

Annex A (informative): An example of UDC Checksum calculation 55

Annex B (informative): Change history 56

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document provides the description of the Packet Data
Convergence Protocol (PDCP).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

• References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non specific.

• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Overall description\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol Specification\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 36.322: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution: Security
Architecture\".

\[7\] IETF RFC 5795: \"The RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Framework\".

\[8\] IETF RFC 6846: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): A Profile for
TCP/IP (ROHC-TCP)\".

\[9\] IETF RFC 3095: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Framework and
four profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP and uncompressed\".

\[10\] IETF RFC 3843: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): A Compression
Profile for IP\".

\[11\] IETF RFC 4815: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Corrections
and Clarifications to RFC 3095\".

\[12\] IETF RFC 5225: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Version 2:
Profiles for RTP, UDP, IP, ESP and UDP Lite\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 33.303: \"Proximity-based Services; Security Aspects\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based Services; Stage 2\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 36.360: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); LTE-WLAN Aggregation Adaptation Protocol (LWAAP)
specification\".

\[16\] IETF RFC 1951: \"DEFLATE Compressed Data Format Specification
version 1.3\".

\[17\] IETF RFC 3485: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and
Session Description Protocol (SDP) Static Dictionary for Signaling
Compression (SigComp)\".

\[18\] IETF RFC 1979: \"PPP Deflate Protocol\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
protocol specification\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**DAPS bearer**: a bearer whose radio protocols are located in both the
source eNB and the target eNB during DAPS handover to use both source
eNB and target eNB resources.

**NB-IoT**: NB-IoT allows access to network services via E-UTRA with a
channel bandwidth limited to 200 kHz.

**Split bearer**: in dual connectivity, a bearer whose radio protocols
are located in both the MeNB and the SeNB to use both MeNB and SeNB
resources.

**LWA bearer**: in LTE-WLAN Aggregation, a bearer whose radio protocols
are located in both the eNB and the WLAN to use both eNB and WLAN
resources.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR
21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

AILC Assistance Information bit for Local Cache

AM Acknowledged Mode

ARP Address Resolution Protocol

CID Context Identifier

DAPS Dual Active Protocol Stack

DRB Data Radio Bearer carrying user plane data

EHC Ethernet Header Compression

EPS Evolved Packet System

E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network

eNB E-UTRAN Node B

FIFO First In First Out

FMS First missing PDCP SN

HFN Hyper Frame Number

HRW Highest Received PDCP SN on WLAN

IETF Internet Engineering Task Force

IP Internet Protocol

L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)

L3 Layer 3 (network layer)

LWA LTE-WLAN Aggregation

MAC Medium Access Control

MAC-I Message Authentication Code for Integrity

MCG Master Cell Group

NB-IoT Narrow Band Internet of Things

NMP Number of Missing PDCP SDUs

PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol

PDU Protocol Data Unit

PEK ProSe Encryption Key

PGK ProSe Group Key

ProSe Proximity-based Services

PTK ProSe Traffic Key

R Reserved

RB Radio Bearer

RFC Request For Comments

RLC Radio Link Control

RN Relay Node

ROHC RObust Header Compression

RRC Radio Resource Control

RTP Real Time Protocol

SAP Service Access Point

SCG Secondary Cell Group

SDU Service Data Unit

SLRB Sidelink Radio Bearer carrying Sidelink Communication or V2X
sidelink communication data

SN Sequence Number

SRB Signalling Radio Bearer carrying control plane data

TCP Transmission Control Protocol

UDC Uplink Data Compression

UDP User Datagram Protocol

UE User Equipment

UM Unacknowledged Mode

X-MAC Computed MAC-I

4 General
=========

4.1 Introduction
----------------

The present document describes the functionality of the PDCP.
Functionality specified for the UE equally applies to the RN for
functionality necessary for the RN. There is also functionality which is
only applicable to the RN in its communication with the E-UTRAN, in
which case the specification denotes the RN instead of the UE.
RN-specific behaviour is not applicable to the UE. The functionality
specified for the UE applies to communication on Uu interface and PC5
interface \[14\].

4.2 PDCP architecture
---------------------

### 4.2.1 PDCP structure

Figure 4.2.1.1 represents one possible structure for the PDCP sublayer;
it should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the radio
interface protocol architecture defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

Figure 4.2.1.1 - PDCP layer, structure view

Each RB (i.e. DRB, SLRB and SRB, except for SRB0 and SRB1bis) is
associated with one PDCP entity. Each PDCP entity is associated with
one, two, or four (e.g uni-directional/bi-directional or
split/non-split) RLC entities depending on the RB characteristic (i.e.
uni-directional or bi-directional) or RLC mode:

\- For split bearers or for RBs configured with PDCP duplication, each
PDCP entity is associated with two (bi-directional) AM RLC entities, two
(for same direction) UM RLC entities or four (uni-directional) UM RLC
entities.

\- For LWA bearers, each PDCP entity is associated with one
(bi-directional) AM RLC entity or two (uni-directional) UM RLC entities
and the LWAAP entity.

\- For DAPS bearers, each PDCP entity is associated with two UM RLC
entities (for same direction, one for source and one for target cell),
four (uni-directional) UM RLC entities (two for each direction on source
cell and target cell), or two AM RLC entities (bi-directional, one for
source cell and one for target cell).

\- Otherwise, each PDCP entity is associated with one UM RLC entity, two
UM RLC entities (one for each direction), or one AM RLC entity
(bi-directional).

PDCP entities are located in the PDCP sublayer. The PDCP sublayer is
configured by upper layers, see TS 36.331 \[3\].

### 4.2.2 PDCP entities

The PDCP entities are located in the PDCP sublayer. Several PDCP
entities may be defined for a UE. Each PDCP entity carrying user plane
data may be configured to use either uplink data compression (UDC) or to
use header compression.

Each PDCP entity is carrying the data of one radio bearer. In this
version of the specification, the robust header compression protocol
(ROHC), Ethernet header compression (EHC), and UDC, are supported. Every
PDCP entity uses at most one ROHC, one EHC, or one UDC compressor
instance and at most one ROHC, one EHC, or one UDC decompressor
instance. For DAPS bearers, the PDCP entity uses at most one ROHC
compressor instance (i.e. use the ROHC compressor instance for source
cell before uplink data switching, and use the ROHC compressor instance
for target cell after uplink data switching) and at most two ROHC
decompressor instances. UDC is not supported simultaneously with ROHC or
EHC for the same radio bearer. ROHC and EHC are independently configured
for the same radio bearer.

A PDCP entity is associated either to the control plane or the user
plane depending on which radio bearer it is carrying data for.

Figure 4.2.2.1 represents the functional view of the PDCP entity for the
PDCP sublayer; it should not restrict implementation. The figure is
based on the radio interface protocol architecture defined in TS 36.300
\[2\].

For RNs, integrity protection and verification are also performed for
the u-plane.

For split and LWA bearers, routing is performed in the transmitting PDCP
entity, and reordering is performed in the receiving PDCP entity.

For PDCP duplication, submission of duplicates is performed in the
transmitting PDCP entity, and duplicate discard is performed in the
receiving PDCP entity.

For split bearers, except when PDCP duplication is configured and
activated, when requested by lower layers to submit PDCP PDUs, the
transmitting PDCP entity shall:

\- if *ul-DataSplitThreshold* is configured and the data available for
transmission is larger than or equal to *ul-DataSplitThreshold*:

\- submit the PDCP PDUs to either the associated RLC entity configured
for SCG or the associated RLC entity configured for MCG, whichever the
PDUs were requested by;

\- else:

\- if ***ul-DataSplitDRB-ViaSCG*** is set to *TRUE* by upper layers, see
TS 36.331 \[3\]:

\- if the PDUs were requested by the associated lower layers configured
for SCG:

\- submit the PDCP PDUs to the associated RLC entity configured for SCG;

\- else:

\- if the PDUs were requested by the associated lower layers configured
for MCG:

\- submit the PDCP PDUs to the associated RLC entity configured for MCG.

For LWA bearers, when submitting PDCP PDUs to lower layers, the
transmitting PDCP entity shall:

\- if *ul-LWA-DataSplitThreshold* is configured and the data available
for transmission is larger than or equal to *ul-LWA-DataSplitThreshold*:

\- submit the PDCP PDUs to either the associated RLC entity upon request
from lower layers or the associated LWAAP entity;

\- else:

\- if *ul-LWA-DRB-ViaWLAN* is set to *TRUE* by upper layers,see TS
36.331 \[3\]:

\- submit the PDCP PDUs to the associated LWAAP entity;

\- else:

\- submit the PDCP PDUs to the associated RLC entity upon request from
lower layers.

NOTE: The selection of PDCP PDUs submitted to the associated LWAAP
entity is left up to the UE implementation.

For bearers configured with PDCP duplication, when requested by lower
layers to submit the PDCP PDUs, the transmitting PDCP entity shall:

\- if PDCP duplication is activated:

\- if the PDCP PDU is a PDCP Data PDU:

\- duplicate the PDCP Data PDU and submit the PDCP Data PDU to the
associated RLC entities;

\- else:

\- submit the PDCP Control PDU to the primary RLC entity;

\- else:

\- submit the PDCP PDU to the associated RLC entity.

Figure 4.2.2.1 - PDCP layer, functional view

Figure 4.2.2.2 represents the functional view of the PDCP entity
associated with the DAPS bearer for the PDCP sublayer; it should not
restrict implementation. The figure is based on the radio interface
protocol architecture defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

For DAPS bearers, the PDCP entity is configured with two sets of
ciphering functions and keys and two sets of header compression
protocols.

For DAPS bearers, routing is performed in the transmitting PDCP entity,
and reordering is performed in the receiving PDCP entity.

For DAPS bearers, when submitting PDCP PDUs to lower layers, the
transmitting PDCP entity shall:

\- if the uplink data switching has not been requested by upper layers:

\- submit the PDCP PDU to the RLC entity associated with the source
cell;

\- else:

\- if the PDCP PDU is a PDCP Data PDU:

\- submit the PDCP Data PDU to the RLC entity associated with the target
cell;

\- else:

\- if the PDCP Control PDU is associated with source cell:

\- submit the PDCP Control PDU to the RLC entity associated with the
source cell;

\- else:

\- submit the PDCP Control PDU to the RLC entity associated with the
target cell.

Figure 4.2.2.2: PDCP layer associated with DAPS bearer, functional view

4.3 Services
------------

### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers

PDCP provides its services to the RRC and user plane upper layers at the
UE or to the relay at the evolved Node B (eNB). The following services
are provided by PDCP to upper layers:

\- transfer of user plane data;

\- transfer of control plane data;

\- header compression;

\- uplink data compression;

\- ciphering;

\- integrity protection.

The maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU is 8188 octets, except in
NB-IoT for which the maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU is 1600
octets. The maximum supported size of a PDCP Control PDU is 8188 octets
except in NB-IoT for which the maximum supported size of PDCP Control
PDU is 1600 octets.

### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers

A PDCP entity expects the following services from lower layers per RLC
entity (for a detailed description see TS 36.322 \[5\]):

\- acknowledged data transfer service, including indication of
successful delivery of PDCP PDUs;

\- unacknowledged data transfer service;

\- in-sequence delivery, except at re-establishment of lower layers;

\- duplicate discarding, except at re-establishment of lower layers.

A PDCP entity expects the following services from the LWAAP entity (for
a detailed description see TS 36.360 \[15\]):

\- user plane data transfer service;

4.4 Functions
-------------

The Packet Data Convergence Protocol supports the following functions:

\- header compression and decompression of IP data flows using the ROHC
protocol;

\- header compression and decompression of Ethernet data flows using the
EHC protocol;

\- compression and decompression of uplink PDCP SDU;

\- transfer of data (user plane or control plane);

\- maintenance of PDCP SNs;

\- in-sequence delivery of upper layer PDUs at re-establishment of lower
layers;

\- duplicate elimination of lower layer SDUs at re-establishment of
lower layers for radio bearers mapped on RLC AM;

\- ciphering and deciphering of user plane data and control plane data;

\- integrity protection and integrity verification of control plane
data;

\- integrity protection and integrity verification of sidelink
one-to-one communication data;

\- for RNs, integrity protection and integrity verification of user
plane data;

\- timer based discard;

\- duplicate transmission and duplicate discarding;

\- for split and LWA bearers, routing and reordering;

\- for DAPS bearers, routing and reordering.

PDCP uses the services provided by the RLC sublayer and the LWAAP
sublayer.

PDCP is used for SRBs, DRBs, and SLRBs mapped on DCCH, DTCH, and STCH
type of logical channels. PDCP is not used for any other type of logical
channels. PDCP is not used for SRB1bis. DAPS PDCP is only used for DAPS
DRB.

4.5 Data available for transmission
-----------------------------------

For the purpose of MAC buffer status reporting, the UE shall consider
PDCP Control PDUs, as well as the following as data available for
transmission in the PDCP layer:

> For SDUs for which no PDU has been submitted to lower layers:

\- the SDU itself, if the SDU has not yet been processed by PDCP, or

\- the PDU if the SDU has been processed by PDCP.

In addition, for radio bearers that are mapped on RLC AM, if the PDCP
entity has previously performed the re-establishment procedure or uplink
data switching procedure, the UE shall also consider the following as
data available for transmission in the PDCP layer:

> For SDUs for which a corresponding PDU has only been submitted to
> lower layers prior to the PDCP re-establishment, starting from the
> first SDU for which the delivery of the corresponding PDUs has not
> been confirmed by the lower layer, except the SDUs which are indicated
> as successfully delivered by the PDCP status report, if received:

\- the SDU, if it has not yet been processed by PDCP, or

\- the PDU once it has been processed by PDCP.

For radio bearers that are mapped on RLC AM, if the PDCP entity has
previously performed the data recovery procedure, the UE shall also
consider as data available for transmission in the PDCP layer, all the
PDCP PDUs that have only been submitted to re-established AM RLC entity
prior to the PDCP data recovery, starting from the first PDCP PDU whose
successful delivery has not been confirmed by lower layers, except the
PDUs which are indicated as successfully delivered by the PDCP status
report, if received.

In addition, for bearers configured with PDCP duplication, when PDCP
duplication is activated, for SDUs for which a PDU has only been
submitted to lower layers associated with one logical channel, for the
purpose of MAC buffer status reporting associated with the other logical
channel the UE shall consider:

\- the PDU, if the PDU has not yet been confirmed to be successfully
delivered by those lower layers.

For split bearers, when indicating the data available for transmission
to a MAC entity for BSR triggering and Buffer Size calculation, the UE
shall:

\- if *ul-DataSplitThreshold* is configured and the data available for
transmission is larger than or equal to *ul-DataSplitThreshold*:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to both the MAC entity
configured for SCG and the MAC entity configured for MCG;

\- else:

\- if ***ul-DataSplitDRB-ViaSCG*** is set to *TRUE* by upper layer, see
TS 36.331 \[3\]:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity
configured for SCG only;

\- if *ul-DataSplitThreshold* is configured, indicate the data available
for transmission as 0 to the MAC entity configured for MCG;

\- else:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity
configured for MCG only;

\- if *ul-DataSplitThreshold* is configured, indicate the data available
for transmission as 0 to the MAC entity configured for SCG.

For uplink LWA bearers, when indicating the data available for
transmission to the MAC entity for BSR triggering and Buffer Size
calculation, the UE shall:

\- if *ul-LWA-DataSplitThreshold* is configured and the data available
for transmission is larger than or equal to *ul-LWA-DataSplitThreshold*:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity;

\- else:

\- if ***ul-LWA-DRB-ViaWLAN*** is set to *TRUE* by upper layers, see TS
36.331 \[3\]:

\- indicate the data available for transmission as 0 to the MAC entity;

\- else:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity.

NOTE: For LWA bearers, only the data that may be sent over LTE (i.e.,
excluding UL data already sent or decided to be sent over WLAN) is
considered as \"data available for transmission\".

For bearers configured with PDCP duplication, when indicating the data
available for transmission to a MAC entity for BSR triggering and Buffer
Size calculation, the UE shall:

\- if PDCP duplication is activated:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity
associated with the primary RLC entity and (if different) the MAC entity
associated with the secondary RLC entity.

\- else:

\- if the two associated RLC entities belong to the different cell
groups:

\- if *ul-DataSplitThreshold* is configured and the data available for
transmission is larger than or equal to *ul-DataSplitThreshold*:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to both the MAC entity
configured for SCG and the MAC entity configured for MCG.

\- else:

\- if ***ul-DataSplitDRB-ViaSCG*** is set to *TRUE* by upper layer, see
TS 36.331 \[3\]:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity
configured for SCG only;

\- if *ul-DataSplitThreshold* is configured, indicate the data available
for transmission as 0 to the MAC entity configured for MCG.

\- else:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity
configured for MCG only;

\- if *ul-DataSplitThreshold* is configured, indicate the data available
for transmission as 0 to the MAC entity configured for SCG.

\- else:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity.

For DAPS bearers, when indicating the data available for transmission to
the MAC entity for BSR triggering and Buffer Size calculation, the UE
shall:

\- if the uplink data switching has not been requested by upper layers:

\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity
associated with the source cell;

\- else:

\- indicate the data available for transmission excluding the PDCP
Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback associated with the source
cell to the MAC entity associated with the target cell;

\- indicate the data available for transmission of PDCP Control PDU for
interspersed ROHC feedback associated with the source cell to the MAC
entity assocaited with the source cell.

5 PDCP procedures
=================

5.1 PDCP Data Transfer Procedures
---------------------------------

### 5.1.1 UL Data Transfer Procedures

At reception of a PDCP SDU from upper layers, the UE shall:

\- start the *discardTimer* associated with this PDCP SDU (if
configured);

For a PDCP SDU received from upper layers, the UE shall:

\- associate the PDCP SN corresponding to Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN to this
PDCP SDU;

NOTE: Associating more than half of the PDCP SN space of contiguous PDCP
SDUs with PDCP SNs, when e.g., the PDCP SDUs are discarded or
transmitted without acknowledgement, may cause HFN desynchronization
problem. How to prevent HFN desynchronization problem is left up to UE
implementation.

\- perform header compression of the PDCP SDU (if configured) using ROHC
as specified in the clause 5.5.4 and/or using EHC as specified in the
clause 5.14.4;

\- perform compression of the uplink PDCP SDU (if configured) as
specified in the clause 5.11.4;

\- perform integrity protection (if applicable), and ciphering (if
applicable) using COUNT based on TX\_HFN and the PDCP SN associated with
this PDCP SDU as specified in the clause 5.7 and 5.6, respectively;

\- increment Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN by one;

\- if Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN \> Maximum\_PDCP\_SN:

\- set Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN to 0;

\- increment TX\_HFN by one;

\- if PDCP duplication is activated for the corresponding bearer:

\- submit a duplicate of the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer.

\- submit the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer.

### 5.1.2 DL Data Transfer Procedures

#### 5.1.2.1 Procedures for DRBs

##### 5.1.2.1.1 Void

##### 5.1.2.1.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM when the reordering function is not used

For DRBs mapped on RLC AM, when the reordering function is not used, at
reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower layers, the UE shall:

\- if received PDCP SN -- Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN \>
Reordering\_Window or 0 \<= Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN -- received
PDCP SN \< Reordering\_Window:

\- if received PDCP SN \> Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- decipher the PDCP PDU as specified in the clause 5.6, using COUNT
based on RX\_HFN - 1 and the received PDCP SN;

\- else:

\- decipher the PDCP PDU as specified in the clause 5.6, using COUNT
based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN;

\- perform header decompression (if configured) using ROHC as specified
in the clause 5.5.5 and/or using EHC as specified in the clause 5.14.5;

\- discard this PDCP SDU;

\- else if Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN -- received PDCP SN \> Reordering\_Window:

\- increment RX\_HFN by one;

\- use COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering
the PDCP PDU;

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;

\- else if received PDCP SN -- Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN \>=
Reordering\_Window:

\- use COUNT based on RX\_HFN -- 1 and the received PDCP SN for
deciphering the PDCP PDU;

\- else if received PDCP SN \>= Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- use COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering
the PDCP PDU;

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;

\- if Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN is larger than Maximum\_PDCP\_SN:

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to 0;

\- increment RX\_HFN by one;

\- else if received PDCP SN \< Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- use COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering
the PDCP PDU;

\- if the PDCP PDU has not been discarded in the above:

\- perform deciphering (if configured) for the PDCP PDU as specified in
the clauses 5.6;

\- perform header decompression (if configured) for the PDCP PDU using
ROHC as specified in the clause 5.5.5 and/or using EHC as specified in
the clause 5.14.5;

\- if a PDCP SDU with the same PDCP SN is stored:

\- discard this PDCP SDU;

\- else:

\- store the PDCP SDU;

\- if the PDCP PDU received by PDCP is not due to the re-establishment
of lower layers:

\- deliver to upper layers in ascending order of the associated COUNT
value:

\- all stored PDCP SDU(s) with an associated COUNT value less than the
COUNT value associated with the received PDCP SDU;

\- all stored PDCP SDU(s) with consecutively associated COUNT value(s)
starting from the COUNT value associated with the received PDCP SDU;

\- set Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the PDCP SN of the last PDCP SDU
delivered to upper layers;.

\- else if received PDCP SN = Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN + 1 or
received PDCP SN = Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN -- Maximum\_PDCP\_SN:

\- deliver to upper layers in ascending order of the associated COUNT
value:

\- all stored PDCP SDU(s) with consecutively associated COUNT value(s)
starting from the COUNT value associated with the received PDCP SDU;

\- set Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the PDCP SN of the last PDCP SDU
delivered to upper layers.

##### 5.1.2.1.2a RN procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM

For DRBs mapped on RLC AM, at reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower
layers, the RN should follow the procedures specified for a UE in
5.1.2.1.2 with the addition that for DRBs for which integrity
verification is configured, the RN should, immediately after performing
deciphering as specified in 5.6, also perform integrity verification as
specified in 5.7 with the same COUNT value as used for deciphering.

In case of integrity verification failure, the RN should discard the
PDCP Data PDU without performing header decompression and without
delivering any stored PDCP SDU(s) to upper layers. The RN should also
set the RX\_HFN, Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN and Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to
the respective values they had before the reception of the PDCP Data
PDU.

##### 5.1.2.1.3 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM when the reordering function is not used

For DRBs mapped on RLC UM, at reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower
layers, the UE shall:

\- if received PDCP SN \< Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- increment RX\_HFN by one;

\- decipher the PDCP Data PDU using COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the
received PDCP SN as specified in the clause 5.6;

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;

\- if Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN \> Maximum\_PDCP\_SN:

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to 0;

\- increment RX\_HFN by one;

\- perform header decompression (if configured) of the deciphered PDCP
Data PDU using ROHC as specified in the clause 5.5.5 and/or using EHC as
specified in the clause 5.14.5;

\- deliver the resulting PDCP SDU to upper layer.

##### 5.1.2.1.3a RN procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM

For DRBs mapped on RLC UM, at reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower
layers, the RN should follow the procedures specified for a UE in
5.1.2.1.3 with the addition that for DRBs for which integrity
verification is configured, the RN should, immediately after performing
deciphering as specified in 5.6, also perform integrity verification as
specified in 5.7 with the same COUNT value as used for deciphering.

In case of integrity verification failure, the RN should discard the
PDCP Data PDU without performing header decompression and set the
RX\_HFN and Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the respective values they had before
the reception of the PDCP Data PDU.

##### 5.1.2.1.4 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM or RLC UM, for LWA bearers and SLRB when the reordering function is used

For DRBs mapped on RLC AM and RLC UM, for LWA bearers and when PDCP
duplication is used, the PDCP entity shall use the reordering function
as specified in this clause when:

\- the PDCP entity is associated with two RLC entities; or

\- the PDCP entity is configured for a LWA bearer; or

\- the PDCP entity is associated with one AM RLC entity after it was,
according to the most recent reconfiguration, associated with two AM RLC
entities or configured for a LWA bearer without performing PDCP
re-establishment; or

\- the PDCP entity is configured with PDCP duplication; or

\- the PDCP entity is configured for a DAPS bearer; or

\- the PDCP entity is not configured for a DAPS bearer after it was,
according to the most recent reconfiguration, configured for a DAPS
bearer; or

\- the PDCP entity is associated with at least one RLC entity configured
with *rlc-OutOfOrderDelivery*.

For SLRBs mapped on RLC UM, the PDCP entity shall use the reordering
function as specified in this clause when:

\- the PDCP entity receives a PDCP SN which is not \"0\".

The PDCP entity shall not use the reordering function in other cases.

###### 5.1.2.1.4.1 Procedures when a PDCP PDU is received from the lower layers

For DRBs mapped on RLC AM or RLC UM, SLRB and for LWA bearers, or for
DRBs and SRBs when PDCP duplication is used, when the reordering
function is used, at reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower layers, the
UE shall:

\- if received PDCP SN -- Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN \>
Reordering\_Window or 0 \<= Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN -- received
PDCP SN \< Reordering\_Window:

\- if the PDCP PDU was received on WLAN:

\- if received PDCP SN \> Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- for the purpose of setting the HRW field in the LWA status report,
use COUNT based on RX\_HFN - 1 and the received PDCP SN;

\- else:

\- for the purpose of setting the HRW field in the LWA status report,
use COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN;

\- if received PDCP SN \> Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- decipher the PDCP PDU as specified in the clause 5.6, and perform
integrity verification of the PDCP Data PDU (if applicable) using COUNT
based on RX\_HFN - 1 and the received PDCP SN.

\- else:

\- decipher the PDCP PDU as specified in the clause 5.6, and perform
integrity verification of the PDCP Data PDU (if applicable) using COUNT
based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN.

\- if integrity verification fails:

\- indicate the integrity verification failure to upper layer.

\- discard the PDCP PDU;

\- else if Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN -- received PDCP SN \> Reordering\_Window:

\- increment RX\_HFN by one;

\- use COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering
and integrity verification (if applicable) of the PDCP PDU;

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;

\- else if received PDCP SN -- Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN \>=
Reordering\_Window:

\- use COUNT based on RX\_HFN -- 1 and the received PDCP SN for
deciphering and integrity verification (if applicable) of the PDCP PDU.

\- else if received PDCP SN \>= Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- use COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering
and integrity verification (if applicable) of the PDCP PDU;

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;

\- if Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN is larger than Maximum\_PDCP\_SN:

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to 0;

\- increment RX\_HFN by one.

\- else if received PDCP SN \< Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- use COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering
and integrity verification of the PDCP PDU;

\- if the PDCP PDU has not been discarded in the above:

\- if a PDCP SDU with the same PDCP SN is stored:

\- perform deciphering and integrity verification (if applicable) of the
PDCP PDU;

\- if integrity verification fails:

\- indicate the integrity verification failure to upper layer.

\- discard the PDCP PDU;

\- else:

\- perform deciphering and integrity verification (if applicable) of the
PDCP PDU and store the resulting PDCP SDU;

\- if integrity verification fails:

\- indicate the integrity verification failure to upper layer;

\- discard the PDCP Data PDU.

\- if the PDCP PDU has not been discarded in the above:

\- if received PDCP SN = Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN + 1 or received
PDCP SN = Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN -- Maximum\_PDCP\_SN:

\- deliver to upper layers in ascending order of the associated COUNT
value after performing header decompression (if configured) using ROHC
as specified in the clause 5.5.5 and/or using EHC as specified in the
clause 5.14.5:

\- all stored PDCP SDU(s) with consecutively associated COUNT value(s)
starting from the COUNT value associated with the received PDCP PDU;

\- set Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the PDCP SN of the last PDCP SDU
delivered to upper layers;

\- if *t-Reordering* is running:

\- if the PDCP SDU with Reordering\_PDCP\_RX\_COUNT -- 1 has been
delivered to upper layers:

\- stop and reset *t-Reordering*;

\- if *t-Reordering* is not running (includes the case when
*t-Reordering* is stopped due to actions above):

\- if there is at least one stored PDCP SDU:

\- start *t-Reordering*;

\- set Reordering\_PDCP\_RX\_COUNT to the COUNT value associated to
RX\_HFN and Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN.

###### 5.1.2.1.4.2 Procedures when *t-Reordering* expires

When *t-Reordering* expires, the UE shall:

\- deliver to upper layers in ascending order of the associated COUNT
value after performing header decompression (if configured) using ROHC
as specified in the clause 5.5.5 and/or using EHC as specified in the
clause 5.14.5:

\- all stored PDCP SDU(s) with associated COUNT value(s) less than
Reordering\_PDCP\_RX\_COUNT;

\- all stored PDCP SDU(s) with consecutively associated COUNT value(s)
starting from Reordering\_PDCP\_RX\_COUNT;

\- set Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the PDCP SN of the last PDCP SDU
delivered to upper layers;

\- if there is at least one stored PDCP SDU:

\- start *t-Reordering*;

\- set Reordering\_PDCP\_RX\_COUNT to the COUNT value associated to
RX\_HFN and Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN.

###### 5.1.2.1.4.3 Procedures when the value of *t-Reordering* is reconfigured

When the value of the *t-Reordering* is reconfigured by upper layers
while the *t-Reordering* is running, the UE shall:

\- stop and restart *t-Reordering*;

\- set Reordering\_PDCP\_RX\_COUNT to the COUNT value associated to
RX\_HFN and Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN.

#### 5.1.2.2 Procedures for SRBs

##### 5.1.2.2.1 Procedures for SRBs when the reordering function is not used

For SRBs, at reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower layers, the UE
shall:

\- if received PDCP SN \< Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- decipher and verify the integrity of the PDU (if applicable) using
COUNT based on RX\_HFN + 1 and the received PDCP SN as specified in the
clauses 5.6 and 5.7, respectively;

\- else:

\- decipher and verify the integrity of the PDU (if applicable) using
COUNT based on RX\_HFN and the received PDCP SN as specified in the
clauses 5.6 and 5.7, respectively;

\- if integrity verification is applicable and the integrity
verification is passed successfully; or

\- if integrity verification is not applicable:

\- if received PDCP SN \< Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN:

\- increment RX\_HFN by one;

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;

\- if Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN \> Maximum\_PDCP\_SN:

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to 0;

\- increment RX\_HFN by one;

\- deliver the resulting PDCP SDU to upper layer;

\- else, if integrity verification is applicable and the integrity
verification fails:

\- discard the received PDCP Data PDU;

\- indicate the integrity verification failure to upper layer.

##### 5.1.2.2.2 Procedures for SRBs when the reordering function is used

For SRBs, the PDCP entity shall use the reordering function when:

\- the PDCP entity is configured with PDCP duplication.

For SRBs, when the reordering function is used, at reception of a PDCP
Data PDU from lower layers, the UE shall follow the procedures in clause
5.1.2.1.4.1.

### 5.1.3 SL Data Transmission Procedures

For Sidelink transmission of the SLRB for which *SL-V2X-TxProfile* is
not configured or configured as *rel14*, see TS 36.331 \[3\], the UE
shall follow the procedures in clause 5.1.1 with following
modifications:

\- the requirement for maintaining Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN is not applicable;

\- determine a PDCP SN ensuring that a PDCP SN value is not reused with
the same key;

\- perform ciphering (if configured) as specified in clause 5.6.1 and
5.6.2;

\- perform the header compression (if configured) using ROHC if SDU Type
is set to 000, i.e. IP SDUs.

For sidelink transmission of the SLRBs for which the indicated
*SL-V2X-TxProfile* is *rel15*, see TS 36.331 \[3\], the UE shall follow
the procedures in clause 5.1.1 with following modifications compared to
above Sidelink transmission procedure:

\- the requirement for maintaining Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN is applicable;

\- for the SLRBs associated to packets which have PPPR value lower than
the configured PPPR threshold *threshSL-Reliability*, see TS 36.331
\[3\], the PDCP entity duplicates the PDCP PDUs, and submits the PDCP
PDUs to both associated RLC entities.

For sidelink transmission, the requirement for maintaining TX\_HFN is
not applicable.

### 5.1.4 SL Data Reception Procedures

For Sidelink reception, the UE shall follow the procedures in clause
5.1.2.1.3 with following modifications, except if it receives a PDCP SN
which is not \"0\":

\- the requirements for maintaining Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN and RX\_HFN are
not applicable;

\- perform the deciphering (if configured) as specified in clause 5.6.1
and 5.6.2;

\- perform the header decompression (if configured) using ROHC if SDU
Type is set to 000, i.e. IP SDUs.

Otherwise, if the UE receives a PDCP SN which is not \"0\", the Sidelink
reception of the UE shall follow the procedures in clause 5.1.2.1.4.1
with following modifications compared to above Sidelink reception
procedure:

\- the requirements for maintaining Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN and RX\_HFN are
applicable;

\- perform the re-ordering procedure as specified in clause 5.1.2.1.4.1.

5.2 Re-establishment procedure
------------------------------

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall
additionally perform once the procedures described in this clause for
the corresponding RLC mode. After performing the procedures in this
clause, the UE shall follow the procedures in clause 5.1.

### 5.2.1 UL Data Transfer Procedures

For LWA bearers, the UE shall use the procedures corresponding to the
associated RLC entity below.

#### 5.2.1.1 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:

\- reset the ROHC protocol for uplink and start with an IR state in
U-mode (if configured) \[9\] \[11\], except if upper layers indicate
stored UE AS context is used and *drb-ContinueROHC* is configured, see
TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- reset the EHC protocol for uplink (if configured) if
*drb-ContinueEHC-UL* is not configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- reset the compression buffer to all zeros (if configured) and prefill
the dictionary (if configured) as specified in clause 5.11.5;

\- if connected as an RN, apply the integrity protection algorithm and
key provided by upper layers (if configured) during the re-establishment
procedure;

\- if upper layers indicate stored UE AS context is used, set
Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN, and TX\_HFN to 0;

\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during
the re-establishment procedure;

\- for LWA bearers, consider all PDCP SDUs submitted to the LWAAP entity
as successfully delivered;

\- from the first PDCP SDU for which the successful delivery of the
corresponding PDCP PDU has not been confirmed by lower layers, perform
retransmission or transmission of all the PDCP SDUs already associated
with PDCP SNs in ascending order of the COUNT values associated to the
PDCP SDU prior to the PDCP re-establishment as specified below:

\- perform header compression of the PDCP SDU (if configured) using ROHC
as specified in the clause 5.5.4 and/or using EHC as specified in the
clause 5.14.4;

\- perform compression of the uplink PDCP SDU (if configured) as
specified in the clause 5.11.4;

\- if connected as an RN, perform integrity protection (if configured)
of the PDCP SDU using the COUNT value associated with this PDCP SDU as
specified in the clause 5.7;

\- perform ciphering of the PDCP SDU using the COUNT value associated
with this PDCP SDU as specified in the clause 5.6;

\- submit the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer. If PDCP
duplication is activated, duplicate the resulting PDCP Data PDUs and
submit the PDCP Data PDUs to both associated RLC entities.

#### 5.2.1.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:

\- reset the ROHC protocol for uplink and start with an IR state in
U-mode \[9\] \[11\] if the DRB is configured with the ROHC protocol and
*drb-ContinueROHC* is not configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- reset the EHC protocol for uplink (if configured) if
*drb-ContinueEHC-UL* is not configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- set Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN, and TX\_HFN to 0;

\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during
the re-establishment procedure;

\- if connected as an RN, apply the integrity protection algorithm and
key provided by upper layers (if configured) during the re-establishment
procedure;

\- for each PDCP SDU already associated with a PDCP SN but for which a
corresponding PDU has not previously been submitted to lower layers:

\- consider the PDCP SDUs as received from upper layer;

\- perform transmission of the PDCP SDUs in ascending order of the COUNT
value associated to the PDCP SDU prior to the PDCP re-establishment, as
specified in the clause 5.1.1 without restarting the *discardTimer*.

#### 5.2.1.3 Procedures for SRBs

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:

\- set Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN, and TX\_HFN to 0;

\- discard all stored PDCP SDUs and PDCP PDUs;

\- apply the ciphering and integrity protection algorithms and keys
provided by upper layers during the re-establishment procedure.

### 5.2.2 DL Data Transfer Procedures

#### 5.2.2.1 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM while the reordering function is not used

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment while the reordering
function is not used, the UE shall:

\- process the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to
the re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the clause
5.1.2.1.2;

\- reset the ROHC protocol for downlink and start with NC state in
U-mode (if configured) \[9\] \[11\], except if upper layers indicate
stored UE AS context is used and *drb-ContinueROHC* is configured,see TS
36.331 \[3\];

\- reset the EHC protocol for downlink (if configured) if
*drb-ContinueEHC-DL* is not configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- if upper layers indicate stored UE AS context is used, set
Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN, RX\_HFN to 0 and Last\_submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to
Maximum\_PDCP\_SN;

\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during
the re-establishment procedure.

\- if connected as an RN, apply the integrity protection algorithm and
key provided by upper layers (if configured) during the re-establishment
procedure.

#### 5.2.2.1a Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM while the reordering function is used

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment while the reordering
function is used, the UE shall:

\- process the PDCP Data PDU(s) that are received from lower layers due
to the re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the clause
5.1.2.1.4;

\- if the PDCP entity is to be associated with one AM RLC entity after
PDCP re-establishment:

\- stop and reset *t-Reordering*;

\- if the PDCP entity is associated with at least one RLC entity
configured with *rlc-OutOfOrderDelivery*:

\- perform header decompression (if configured) using EHC for all stored
PDCP SDUs if *drb-ContinueEHC-DL* is not configured in TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- reset the EHC protocol for downlink (if configured) if
*drb-ContinueEHC-DL* is not configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during
the re-establishment procedure.

#### 5.2.2.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM when the reordering function is not used

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:

\- process the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to
the re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the clause
5.1.2.1.3;

> \- reset the ROHC protocol for downlink and start with NC state in
> U-mode \[9\] \[11\] if the DRB is configured with the ROHC protocol
> and *drb-ContinueROHC* is not configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- reset the EHC protocol for downlink (if configured) if
*drb-ContinueEHC-DL* is not configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN, and RX\_HFN to 0;

\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during
the re-establishment procedure.

\- if connected as an RN, apply the integrity protection algorithm and
key provided by upper layers (if configured) during the re-establishment
procedure.

#### 5.2.2.2a Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM when the reordering function is used

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment when the reordering
function is used, the UE shall:

\- process the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to
the re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the clause
5.1.2.1.4;

\- stop and reset *t-Reordering*, if running;

\- deliver all stored PDCP SDUs, if any, to upper layers in ascending
order of associated COUNT values after performing header decompression
using EHC (if configured) as specified in the clause 5.14.5;

\- if the PDCP entity is associated with at least one RLC entity
configured with *rlc-OutOfOrderDelivery*:

\- reset the EHC protocol for downlink (if configured) if
*drb-ContinueEHC-DL* is not configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\];

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN, and RX\_HFN to 0 and
Last\_submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to Maximum\_PDCP\_SN;

\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during
the re-establishment procedure.

#### 5.2.2.3 Procedures for SRBs

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:

\- discard the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to
the re-establishment of the lower layers;

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN, and RX\_HFN to 0;

\- discard all stored PDCP SDUs and PDCP PDUs;

\- apply the ciphering and integrity protection algorithms and keys
provided by upper layers during the re-establishment procedure.

#### 5.2.2.4 Procedures for LWA bearers

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:

\- process the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to
the re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the clause
5.1.2.1.4;

\- stop and reset t-Reordering, if running;

\- if the PDCP entity is associated with UM RLC entity:

\- deliver all stored PDCP SDUs, if any, to upper layers in ascending
order of associated COUNT values;

\- set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN, RX\_HFN to 0 and
Last\_submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to Maximum\_PDCP\_SN;

\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during
the re-establishment procedure.

5.3 PDCP Status Report
----------------------

### 5.3.1 Transmit operation

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment or PDCP Data Recovery;
or when PDCP status report is triggered by polling or periodic
reporting; or when PDCP status report is triggered by WLAN Connection
Status Reporting of temporary unavailability (*suspended*, see TS 36.331
\[3\]); or when upper layers request uplink data switching during DAPS
handover, or when upper layers reconfigure the PDCP entity to release
DAPS and *daps-SourceRelease* is configured in TS 36.331 \[3\], for
radio bearers that are mapped on RLC AM, or when upper layers request
uplink data switching during DAPS handover for radio bearers that are
mapped on RLC UM, the UE shall:

\- if the radio bearer is configured by upper layers to send a PDCP
status report in the uplink (*statusReportRequired*, see TS 36.331
\[3\]) or the status report is triggered by PDCP status report polling
or PDCP periodic status reporting or the status report is triggered by
WLAN Connection Status Reporting of temporary unavailability
(*suspended*, see TS 36.331 \[3\]) when
*wlan-SuspendTriggersStatusReport* is configured, see TS 36.331 \[3\],
compile a status report as indicated below after processing the PDCP
Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to the
re-establishment of the lower layers as specified in the clause 5.2.2.1,
and submit it to lower layers as the first PDCP PDU for the
transmission, by:

\- setting the FMS field to the PDCP SN of the first missing PDCP SDU;

\- if there is at least one out-of-sequence PDCP SDU stored, allocating
a Bitmap field of length in bits equal to the number of PDCP SNs from
and not including the first missing PDCP SDU up to and including the
last out-of-sequence PDCP SDUs, rounded up to the next multiple of 8, or
up to and including a PDCP SDU for which the resulting PDCP Control PDU
size is equal to 8188 bytes, whichever comes first;

\- setting as \'0\' in the corresponding position in the bitmap field
for all PDCP SDUs that have not been received as indicated by lower
layers, and optionally PDCP SDUs for which decompression have failed;

\- indicating in the bitmap field as \'1\' for all other PDCP SDUs.

### 5.3.2 Receive operation

When a PDCP status report is received in the downlink, for radio bearers
that are mapped on RLC AM:

\- for each PDCP SDU, if any, with the bit in the bitmap set to \'1\',
or with the associated COUNT value less than the COUNT value of the PDCP
SDU identified by the FMS field, the successful delivery of the
corresponding PDCP SDU is confirmed, and the UE shall process the PDCP
SDU as specified in the clause 5.4.

PDCP status report receive operation is not applicable in NB-IoT.

5.4 PDCP discard
----------------

When the *discardTimer* expires for a PDCP SDU, or the successful
delivery of a PDCP SDU is confirmed by PDCP status report or LWA status
report, the UE shall discard the PDCP SDU along with the corresponding
PDCP PDU. If the corresponding PDCP PDU has already been submitted to
lower layers, the discard is indicated to lower layers.

NOTE: For split and LWA bearers, discarding a PDCP SDU already
associated with a PDCP SN causes a SN gap in the transmitted PDCP PDUs,
which increases PDCP reordering delay in the receiving PDCP entity. It
is up to UE implementation how to minimize SN gap after SDU discard.

5.4a Duplicate PDCP discard
---------------------------

For the transmitting PDCP entity associated with two RLC entities, the
transmitting PDCP entity shall:

\- if the successful delivery of a PDCP Data PDU is confirmed by one of
the two associated RLC entities:

\- discard the PDCP Data PDU and indicate to the other RLC entity to
discard the duplicated PDCP Data PDU.

\- if the deactivation of PDCP duplication is indicated:

\- if the two associated RLC entities belong to the different cell
groups:

\- if *ul-DataSplitDRB-ViaSCG* is set to TRUE by upper layer, see TS
36.331 \[3\]:

\- indicate to the MCG RLC entity to discard all duplicated PDCP Data
PDUs.

\- else:

\- indicate to the SCG RLC entity to discard all duplicated PDCP Data
PDUs.

\- else:

\- indicate to the secondary RLC entity to discard all duplicated PDCP
Data PDUs.

5.5 Robust Header Compression and Decompression
-----------------------------------------------

### 5.5.1 Supported header compression protocols and profiles

The ROHC protocol is based on the Robust Header Compression (ROHC)
framework \[7\]. There are multiple ROHC algorithms, called profiles,
defined for the ROHC framework. Each profile is specific to the
particular network layer, transport layer or upper layer protocol
combination e.g. TCP/IP and RTP/UDP/IP.

The detailed definition of the ROHC channel is specified as part of the
ROHC framework in RFC 5795 \[7\]. This includes how to multiplex
different flows (header compressed or not) over the ROHC channel, as
well as how to associate a specific IP flow with a specific context
state during initialization of the compression algorithm for that flow.

The implementation of the functionality of the ROHC framework and of the
functionality of the supported ROHC profiles is not covered in this
specification.

In this version of the specification the support of the following
profiles is described:

Table 5.5.1.1: Supported ROHC protocols and profiles

  Profile Identifier   Usage:           Reference
  -------------------- ---------------- --------------------
  0x0000               No compression   RFC 5795
  0x0001               RTP/UDP/IP       RFC 3095, RFC 4815
  0x0002               UDP/IP           RFC 3095, RFC 4815
  0x0003               ESP/IP           RFC 3095, RFC 4815
  0x0004               IP               RFC 3843, RFC 4815
  0x0006               TCP/IP           RFC 6846
  0x0101               RTP/UDP/IP       RFC 5225
  0x0102               UDP/IP           RFC 5225
  0x0103               ESP/IP           RFC 5225
  0x0104               IP               RFC 5225

### 5.5.2 Configuration of ROHC

PDCP entities associated with DRBs can be configured by upper layers,
see TS 36.331 \[3\] to use ROHC either bidirectional (if
*headerCompression* is configured) or uplink-only (if
*uplinkOnlyHeaderCompression* is configured). If
*uplinkOnlyHeaderCompression* is configured, the UE shall process the
received PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet
corresponding to the uplink ROHC as specified in clause 5.5.6.2, but
shall not perform ROHC for the received PDCP Data PDU. PDCP entities
associated with SLRBs can be configured to use ROHC for IP SDUs.

### 5.5.3 Protocol parameters

RFC 5795 has configuration parameters that are mandatory and that must
be configured by upper layers between compressor and decompressor peers
\[7\]; these parameters define the ROHC channel. The ROHC channel is a
unidirectional channel, i.e. there is one channel for the downlink, and
one for the uplink if *headerCompression* is configured, and there is
only one channel for the uplink if *uplinkOnlyHeaderCompression* is
configured. There is thus one set of parameters for each channel, and
the same values shall be used for both channels belonging to the same
PDCP entity if *headerCompression* is configured.

These parameters are categorized in two different groups, as defined
below:

\- M: Mandatory and configured by upper layers.

\- N/A: Not used in this specification.

The usage and definition of the parameters shall be as specified below.

\- MAX\_CID (M): This is the maximum CID value that can be used. One CID
value shall always be reserved for uncompressed flows. The parameter
MAX\_CID is configured by upper layers (*maxCID*, see TS 36.331 \[3\]).

\- LARGE\_CIDS: This value is not configured by upper layers, but rather
it is inferred from the configured value of MAX\_CID according to the
following rule:

If MAX\_CID \> 15 then LARGE\_CIDS = TRUE else LARGE\_CIDS = FALSE.

\- PROFILES (M): Profiles are used to define which profiles are allowed
to be used by the UE. The list of supported profiles is described in
clause 5.5.1. The parameter PROFILES is configured by upper layers
(*profiles* for uplink and downlink, *rohc-Profiles* in
*SL-Preconfiguration* or *SL-V2X-Preconfiguration* for sidelink, see TS
36.331 \[3\]).

\- FEEDBACK\_FOR (N/A): This is a reference to the channel in the
opposite direction between two compression endpoints and indicates to
what channel any feedback sent refers to. Feedback received on one ROHC
channel for this PDCP entity shall always refer to the ROHC channel in
the opposite direction for this same PDCP entity.

\- MRRU (N/A): ROHC segmentation is not used.

### 5.5.4 Header compression using ROHC

The ROHC protocol generates two types of output packets:

\- ROHC compressed packets, each associated with one PDCP SDU

\- standalone packets not associated with a PDCP SDU, i.e. interspersed
ROHC feedback packets

A ROHC compressed packet is associated with the same PDCP SN and COUNT
value as the related PDCP SDU.

For DAPS bearers, the PDCP entity shall perform the header compression
for the PDCP SDU using the ROHC protocol either configured for the
source cell or configured for the target cell, based on to which cell
the PDCP SDU is transmitted.

Interspersed ROHC feedback packets are not associated with a PDCP SDU.
They are not associated with a PDCP SN and are not ciphered.

NOTE 1: If the MAX\_CID number of ROHC contexts are already established
for the compressed flows and a new IP flow does not match any
established ROHC context, the compressor should associate the new IP
flow with one of the ROHC CIDs allocated for the existing compressed
flows or send PDCP SDUs belonging to the IP flow as uncompressed packet.

NOTE 2: For downlink, the ROHC protocol of the target cell should
maintain the IR state if operating in U-mode and O-mode during DAPS
handover before release of source cell.

### 5.5.5 Header decompression using ROHC

If ROHC is configured by upper layers for PDCP entities associated with
u-plane data the PDCP PDUs are de-compressed by the ROHC protocol after
performing deciphering as explained in the clause 5.6.

For DAPS bearers, the PDCP entity shall perform the header decompression
for the PDCP SDU using the ROHC protocol either configured for the
source cell or configured for the target cell, based on from which cell
the PDCP SDU is received.

### 5.5.6 PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet

#### 5.5.6.1 Transmit Operation

When an interspersed ROHC feedback packet is generated by the ROHC
protocol, the UE shall:

\- submit to lower layers the corresponding PDCP Control PDU as
specified in clause 6.2.5 i.e. without associating a PDCP SN, nor
performing ciphering.

#### 5.5.6.2 Receive Operation

At reception of a PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet
from lower layers, the UE shall:

\- deliver the corresponding interspersed ROHC feedback packet to the
associated header compression protocol without performing deciphering.

5.6 Ciphering and Deciphering
-----------------------------

### 5.6.0 General

The ciphering function includes both ciphering and deciphering and is
performed in PDCP. For the control plane, the data unit that is ciphered
is the data part of the PDCP PDU (see clause 6.3.3) and the MAC-I (see
clause 6.3.4). For the user plane, the data unit that is ciphered is the
data part of the PDCP PDU (see clause 6.3.3); ciphering is not
applicable to PDCP Control PDUs.

For RNs, for the user plane, in addition to the data part of the PDCP
PDU, the MAC-I (see 6.3.4) is also ciphered if integrity protection is
configured.

The ciphering algorithm and key to be used by the PDCP entity are
configured by upper layers, see TS 36.331 \[3\] and the ciphering method
shall be applied as specified in TS 33.401 \[6\].

The ciphering function is activated/suspended/resumed by upper layers
(TS 36.331 \[3\]). When security is activated and not suspended, the
ciphering function shall be applied to all PDCP PDUs indicated by upper
layers, see TS 36.331 \[3\], for the downlink and the uplink,
respectively.

NOTE: Security is suspended upon connection suspension (and resumed upon
connection resumption).

For DAPS bearers, the PDCP entity shall perform the ciphering or
deciphering for the PDCP SDU using the ciphering algorithm and key
either configured for the source cell or configured for the target cell,
based on to/from which cell the PDCP SDU is transmitted/received.

For downlink and uplink ciphering and deciphering, the parameters that
are required by PDCP for ciphering are defined in TS 33.401 \[6\] and
are input to the ciphering algorithm. The required inputs to the
ciphering function include the COUNT value, and DIRECTION (direction of
the transmission: set as specified in TS 33.401 \[6\]).The parameters
required by PDCP which are provided by upper layers, see TS 36.331
\[3\], are listed below:

\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in TS 33.401 \[6\]. It
will use the value RB identity --1 as in TS 36.331 \[3\]);

\- KEY (the ciphering keys for **the control plane and for the user
plane are** K~RRCenc~ and K~UPenc~, respectively).

### 5.6.1 SL Ciphering and Deciphering for one-to-many communication

For SLRB used for one-to-many communication, the ciphering function
includes both ciphering and deciphering and is performed in PDCP as
defined in TS 33.303 \[13\]. The data unit that is ciphered is the data
part of the PDCP PDU (see clause 6.3.3). The ciphering function as
specified in TS 33.401 \[6\] is applied with KEY (PEK), COUNT (derived
from PTK Identity and PDCP SN as specified in TS 33.303 \[13\]), BEARER
and DIRECTION (set to 0) as input. The ciphering function is configured
by ProSe Function.

If ciphering is configured, the ciphering algorithm and related
parameters including PGK, PGK Identity, and Group Member Identity are
configured to the UE by ProSe Key Management Function. The UE shall set
PTK Identity based on PGK, PGK Identity, and PDCP SN as specified in TS
33.303 \[13\]. The UE shall derive PTK from PGK using PTK Identity and
Group Member Identity, and derive PEK from PTK using the ciphering
algorithm. The PGK Index, PTK Identity, and PDCP SN are included in the
PDCP PDU header.

If ciphering is not configured, PGK Index and PTK Identity shall be set
to \"0\" in the PDCP PDU header.

If ciphering is not configured, for the SLRB for which
*SL-V2X-TxProfile* is not configured or configured as *rel14* (see TS
36.331 \[3\]), PDCP SN shall be set to \"0\" in the PDCP PDU header.

If ciphering is not configured, for the SLRB of which the indicated
*SL-V2X-TxProfile* is *rel15* (see TS 36.331 \[3\]), PDCP SN shall not
be set to \"0\" in the PDCP PDU header.

### 5.6.2 SL Ciphering and Deciphering for one-to-one communication

For SLRB used for one-to-one communication, the ciphering function
includes both ciphering and deciphering and is performed in PDCP of SLRB
that needs ciphering and deciphering as defined in TS 33.303 \[13\]. The
data unit that is ciphered is the data part of the PDCP PDU (see clause
6.3.3). The ciphering function as specified in TS 33.401 \[6\] is
applied with KEY (PEK), COUNT (derived from K~D-sess~ Identity and PDCP
SN as specified in TS 33.303 \[13\]), BEARER and DIRECTION (which value
shall be set is specified in TS 33.303 \[13\]) as input.

For the SLRB that needs ciphering and deciphering, the UE shall derive
the KEY (PEK) based on K~D-sess~ and the algorithms determined by the
initiating UE and the receiving UE as specified in TS 33.303 \[13\]. The
K~D-sess~ Identity and PDCP SN are included in the PDCP PDU header.

For the SLRB that does not need ciphering and deciphering, the UE shall
set K~D-sess~ Identity to \"0\" in the PDCP PDU header.

### 5.6.3 Handling of LWA end-marker PDCP Control PDU

#### 5.6.3.1 Transmit operation

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment for a LWA bearer
mapped on RLC AM where LWA configuration is retained with the same WT
(*handoverWithoutWT-Change*, see *TS 36.331 \[3\])*, the UE shall:

\- compile a LWA end-marker PDCP Control PDU by setting the LSN field to
the PDCP SN of the last PDCP Data PDU for which the PDCP SN has been
associated, and submit it to lower layers as the next PDCP PDU for the
transmission after the PDCP Data PDU corresponding to LSN has been
submitted to lower layers;

NOTE 1: Whether to submit the LWA end-marker PDCP Control PDU to RLC
entity or LWAAP entity is left up to the UE implementation.

NOTE 2: The UE is expected to ensure the successful transmission of the
LWA end-marker PDCP Control PDU e.g., using repeated transmission of the
same LWA end-marker PDCP Control PDU.

\- start using the key provided by upper layers during the
re-establishment procedure for the ciphering of the data part of the
uplink PDCP PDUs with associated COUNT values above the COUNT value
corresponding to LSN.

#### 5.6.3.2 Receive Operation

When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment for a LWA bearer
mapped on RLC AM where LWA configuration is retained with the same WT
(*handoverWithoutWT-Change*, see *TS 36.331 \[3\])*, after the LWA
end-marker PDCP Control PDU is received, the UE shall start using the
key provided by upper layers during the re-establishment procedure for
the deciphering of the data part of downlink PDCP PDUs with associated
COUNT values above the COUNT value corresponding to LSN.

NOTE 1: If PDCP re-establishment is completed before the LWA end-marker
PDCP Control PDU is received, the behaviour is left up to UE
implementation.

NOTE 2: After the LWA end-marker PDCP Control PDU is received, the
handling of PDCP PDUs with associated COUNT values up to and including
the COUNT value corresponding to LSN is left up to the UE
implementation.

5.7 Integrity Protection and Verification
-----------------------------------------

The integrity protection function includes both integrity protection and
integrity verification and is performed in PDCP for PDCP entities
associated with SRBs and the SLRB that needs integrity protection. The
data unit that is integrity protected is the PDU header and the data
part of the PDU before ciphering.

For RNs, the integrity protection function is performed also for PDCP
entities associated with DRBs if integrity protection is configured.

The integrity protection algorithm and key to be used by the PDCP entity
are configured by upper layers, see TS 36.331 \[3\] and the integrity
protection method shall be applied as specified in TS 33.401 \[6\].

The integrity protection function is activated/suspended/resumed by
upper layers, see TS 36.331 \[3\]. When security is activated and not
suspended, the integrity protection function shall be applied to all
PDUs including and subsequent to the PDU indicated by upper layers, see
TS 36.331 \[3\], for the downlink and the uplink, respectively.

NOTE: As the RRC message which activates the integrity protection
function is itself integrity protected with the configuration included
in this RRC message, this message needs first be decoded by RRC before
the integrity protection verification could be performed for the PDU in
which the message was received.

For downlink and uplink integrity protection and verification, the
parameters that are required by PDCP for integrity protection are
defined in TS 33.401 \[6\] and are input to the integrity protection
algorithm. The required inputs to the integrity protection function
include the COUNT value, and DIRECTION (direction of the transmission:
set as specified in TS 33.401 \[6\]). The parameters required by PDCP
which are provided by upper layers, see TS 36.331 \[3\], are listed
below:

\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in TS 33.401 \[6\]. It
will use the value RB identity --1 as in TS 36.331 \[3\]);

\- KEY (K~RRCint~).

\- for RNs, KEY (K~UPint~)

For the SLRB that needs integrity protection and verification, the
parameters that are required by PDCP for integrity protection are
defined in TS 33.401 \[6\] and are input to the integrity protection
algorithm. The required inputs to the integrity protection function
include the COUNT value and DIRECTION (which value shall be set is
specified in TS 33.303 \[13\]). The parameters required by PDCP which
are provided by upper layers, see TS 36.331 \[3\] are listed below:

\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in TS 33.401 \[6\]);

\- KEY (PIK).

At transmission, the UE computes the value of the MAC-I field and at
reception it verifies the integrity of the PDCP PDU by calculating the
X-MAC based on the input parameters as specified above. If the
calculated X-MAC corresponds to the received MAC-I, integrity protection
is verified successfully.

5.8 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
---------------------------------------------------------------

When a PDCP entity receives a PDCP PDU that contains reserved or invalid
values, the PDCP entity shall:

\- discard the received PDU.

5.9 PDCP Data Recovery procedure
--------------------------------

When upper layers request a PDCP Data Recovery for a radio bearer, the
UE shall:

\- if the radio bearer is configured by upper layers to send a PDCP
status report in the uplink (*statusReportRequired*, see TS 36.331
\[3\]), compile a status report as described in clause 5.3.1, and submit
it to lower layers as the first PDCP PDU for the transmission;

\- perform retransmission of all the PDCP PDUs previously submitted to
re-established AM RLC entity in ascending order of the associated COUNT
values from the first PDCP PDU for which the successful delivery has not
been confirmed by lower layers.

After performing the above procedures, the UE shall follow the
procedures in clause 5.1.1.

5.10 Status report for LWA
--------------------------

### 5.10.1 Transmit operation

When PDCP Data PDU with polling bit P set to 1 is received, the UE
shall:

\- if configured to send the PDCP status report in response to polling
(*statusPDU-TypeForPolling is configured and set to type1*, see TS
36.331 \[3\])

\- compile and transmit the PDCP status report as specified in clause
5.3.1;

\- else if configured to send the LWA status report in response to
polling (*statusPDU-TypeForPolling is configured and set to type2*, see
TS 36.331 \[3\])

\- compile and transmit the LWA status report as specified in clause
5.10.2.

When *t-StatusReportType1* expires, the UE shall:

\- compile and transmit the PDCP status report as specified in clause
5.3.1,

\- start *t-StatusReportType1* with value *statusPDU-Periodicity-Type1*;

When *t-StatusReportType2* expires, the UE shall:

\- compile and transmit the LWA status report as specified in clause
5.10.2,

\- start *t-StatusReportType2* with value *statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2*;

When *t-StatusReportType1* is configured or reconfigured by upper
layers, the UE shall:

\- stop *t-StatusReportType1,* if running;

\- start *t-StatusReportType1* with value *statusPDU-Periodicity-Type1*;

When *t-StatusReportType2* is configured or reconfigured by upper
layers, the UE shall:

\- stop *t-StatusReportType2,* if running;

\- if *statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset* is configured by upper layers:

\- start *t-StatusReportType2* with value *statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2*
plus *statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset*;

\- else:

\- start *t-StatusReportType2* with value *statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2*;

When periodic PDCP status report becomes disabled by upper layers, the
UE shall:

\- stop *t-StatusReportType1*, if running;

\- stop *t-StatusReportType2*, if running;

### 5.10.2 LWA status report

When LWA status report is triggered, the UE shall:

\- compile a status report as indicated below, and submit it to lower
layers as the first PDCP PDU for the transmission, by:

\- setting the FMS field to the PDCP SN of the first missing PDCP SDU;

\- setting the HRW field to the PDCP SN of the PDCP SDU received on WLAN
with highest PDCP COUNT value or to FMS if no PDCP SDUs have been
received on WLAN;

\- setting the NMP field to the number of missing PDCP SDU(s) as
described in 6.3.16.

### 5.10.3 Receive operation

When a LWA status report is received in the downlink:

\- for each PDCP SDU, if any, with the associated COUNT value less than
the COUNT value of the PDCP SDU identified by the FMS field, the
successful delivery of the corresponding PDCP SDU is confirmed, and the
UE shall process the PDCP SDU as specified in 5.4.

5.11 Uplink Data compression and decompression
----------------------------------------------

### 5.11.1 UDC protocol

The UDC protocol is based on IETF RFC 1951 (DEFLATE Compressed Data
Format Specification) \[16\].

Static Huffman coding tree defined in \[16\] is used as the DEFLATE
compression strategy.

UDC Data Block should be byte-alignment. **Z\_SYNC\_FLUSH is used as the
DEFLATE byte-alignment with corresponding reference \[18\]**, wherein
the fixed last four bytes, 0x00 0x00 0xFF 0xFF, are removed before
transmission.

### 5.11.2 Configuration of UDC

The PDCP entities associated with DRBs can be configured by upper
layers, see TS 36.331 \[3\], to use UDC. If UDC is configured, the UE
shall apply UDC compression function (details see clause 5.11.4) to
process the received PDCP SDU from upper layers corresponding to the
configured DRB. The size of compression buffer is configured by upper
layer via *bufferSize*. If pre-defined dictionary is configured by upper
layers, the UE shall prefill the configured pre-defined dictionary in
the compression buffer upon configuration of UDC. If pre-defined
dictionary is not configured by upper layers, UE shall set the
compression buffer to all zeros.

### 5.11.3 UDC header

UDC header (1 byte) is added in UDC compression function followed by UDC
data block (details see clause 5.11.4, 6.2.14, 6.2.15 and 6.2.16). The
UDC header contains the information about whether the current PDCP SDU
is compressed by UDC protocol or not. Only the compressed packets are
stored in the buffer. The UDC header also contains a reset bit to inform
the decompressor that the compression buffer has been reset. The
validation bits (checksum) of the compression buffer are also contained
in UDC header. Checksum mechanism could be used to resolve miss-match
(if any) between the compression and de-compression buffers.

### 5.11.4 Uplink data compression

The UDC protocol generates UDC packets, each associated with one PDCP
SDU.

A UDC packet consists of a UDC header and a UDC data block. A UDC data
block contains either DEFLATE compressed blocks generated from the
original PDCP SDU by UDC protocol or original PDCP SDU for SDU not
compressed by UDC protocol; the type is specified in FU field (details
see clause 6.3.21) in UDC header. The FR field (details see clause
6.3.22) and the Checksum field (details see clause 6.3.23) in UDC header
are used only if FU field is set to 1.

A UDC packet is associated with the same PDCP SN and COUNT values as the
related PDCP SDU.

### 5.11.5 Pre-defined dictionary

One standard dictionary for SIP and SDP and one operator defined
dictionary can be used as pre-defined dictionaries in UDC. The standard
dictionary for SIP and SDP consists of the first 3468 bytes of the
dictionary for SigComp defined in RFC 3485 \[17\]. When UDC is
configured, at most one dictionary, configured by upper layers, is put
into the tail of the compression buffer. Also, the compression buffer
acts as a FIFO and hence the content of the dictionary is to be totally
pushed out of the compression buffer after the size of transmitted
uncompressed packets compressed by UDC exceeds the compression buffer
size. If the size of dictionary is larger than the compression buffer
size, only the tail of the dictionary is inserted in the compression
buffer.

### 5.11.6 UDC buffer reset procedure

UDC works on the condition that compression buffer and de-compression
buffer are synchronized. UDC buffer reset mechanism is to resynchronize
buffer when error is detected. For resynchronization, UE shall reset the
compression buffer to all zeros. After performing the reset, the FR
field (details see clause 6.3.22) in UDC header of the first compressed
PDU shall be set to 1.

### 5.11.7 UDC checksum error handling

UDC checksum error notification PDCP control PDU indicates the
compression buffer and de-compression buffer are out of synchronization.
When receiving the notification, the UE shall trigger UDC buffer reset
procedure to resynchonize the compression buffer.

5.12 Uplink data switching
--------------------------

For DAPS bearers, when upper layers request uplink data switching, the
transmitting PDCP entity shall:

\- for DRBs mapped on RLC AM, from the first PDCP SDU for which the
successful delivery of the corresponding PDCP Data PDU has not been
confirmed by the RLC entity associated with the source cell, perform
retransmission or transmission of all the PDCP SDUs already associated
with PDCP SNs in ascending order of the COUNT values associated to the
PDCP SDU prior to uplink data switching to the RLC entity associated
with the target cell as specified below:

\- perform header compression of the PDCP SDU using ROHC as specified in
the clause 5.5.4;

\- perform ciphering of the PDCP SDU using the COUNT value associated
with this PDCP SDU as specified in the clause 5.6;

\- submit the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer.

\- for DRBs mapped on RLC UM, for each PDCP SDU already associated with
a PDCP SN but for which a corresponding PDU has not previously been
submitted to lower layers, perform transmission of PDCP SDU in ascending
order of the COUNT values to the RLC entity associated with the target
cell as specified below:

\- perform header compression of the PDCP SDU using ROHC as specified in
the clause 5.5.4;

\- perform ciphering of the PDCP SDU using the COUNT value associated
with this PDCP SDU as specified in the clause 5.6;

\- submit the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer.

5.13 PDCP Reconfiguration
-------------------------

When upper layers reconfigure the PDCP entity to configure DAPS, the UE
shall:

\- establish a ciphering function for the radio bearer and apply the
ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers for the ciphering
function;

\- establish a header compression protocol for the radio bearer and
apply the header compression configuration provided by upper layers for
the header compression protocol.

When upper layers reconfigure the PDCP entity to release DAPS, the UE
shall:

\- release the ciphering function associated to the released RLC entity
for the radio bearer;

\- release the header compression protocol associated to the released
RLC entity for the radio bearer.

NOTE 1: The state variables which control the transmission and reception
operation should not be reset, and the timers including *t-Reordering*
and *discardTimer* keep running during PDCP entity reconfiguration
procedure.

NOTE 2: Before releasing the header compression protocol and the
ciphering function associated to the released RLC entity, how to handle
all stored PDCP SDUs received from the released RLC entity is left up to
UE implementation.

NOTE 3: Upon upper layers reconfigure the PDCP entity to release DAPS,
the reordering function is still maintained.

5.14 Ethernet header compression and decompression
--------------------------------------------------

### 5.14.1 Supported header compression protocols

The EHC protocol is based on the Ethernet Header Compression (EHC)
framework defined in \[19\].

### 5.14.2 Configuration of EHC

PDCP entities associated with DRBs can be configured by upper layers TS
36.331 \[3\] to use EHC. Each PDCP entity carrying user plane data may
be configured to use EHC. Every PDCP entity uses at most one EHC
compressor instance and at most one EHC decompressor instance.

### 5.14.3 Protocol parameters

The usage and definition of the parameters shall be as specified below.

\- MAX\_CID\_EHC\_UL: This is the maximum CID value that can be used for
UL. One CID value shall always be reserved for uncompressed flows. The
parameter MAX\_CID\_EHC\_UL is configured by upper layers
(*maxCID-EHC-UL* in TS 36.331 \[3\]);

### 5.14.4 Header compression using EHC

If EHC is configured, the EHC protocol generates two types of output
packets:

\- EHC compressed packets (i.e. EHC full header packets and EHC
compressed header packets), each associated with one PDCP SDU;

\- standalone packets not associated with a PDCP SDU, i.e. EHC feedback
packets.

An EHC compressed packet is associated with the same PDCP SN and COUNT
value as the related PDCP SDU.

EHC feedback packets are not associated with a PDCP SDU. They are not
associated with a PDCP SN and are not ciphered.

### 5.14.5 Header decompression using EHC

If EHC is configured by upper layers for PDCP entities associated with
user plane data, the PDCP Data PDUs are decompressed by the EHC protocol
after performing deciphering as explained in clause 5.6.

### 5.14.6 PDCP Control PDU for EHC feedback packet

#### 5.14.6.1 Transmit Operation

When an EHC feedback packet is generated by the EHC protocol, the
transmitting PDCP entity shall:

\- submit to lower layers the corresponding PDCP Control PDU as
specified in clause 6.2.18, i.e., without associating a PDCP SN, nor
performing ciphering.

#### 5.14.6.2 Receive Operation

At reception of a PDCP Control PDU for EHC feedback packet from lower
layers, the receiving PDCP entity shall:

\- deliver the corresponding EHC feedback packet to the EHC protocol
without performing deciphering.

### 5.14.7 Simultaneous configuration of ROHC and EHC

If both ROHC and EHC are configured for a DRB, the ROHC header shall be
located after the EHC header. Figure 5.14.7.1 shows the location of the
ROHC header and the EHC header in a PDCP Data PDU.

Figure 5.14.7.1: Location of ROHC header and EHC header in a PDCP Data
PDU

If a PDCP SDU including non-IP Ethernet packet is received from upper
layers, the EHC compressor shall bypass the ROHC compressor and submit
the EHC compressed non-IP Ethernet packet to lower layers according to
clause 5.1.1.

If a PDCP Data PDU including non-IP Ethernet packet is received from
lower layers, the EHC decompressor shall bypass the ROHC decompressor
and deliver the EHC decompressed non-IP Ethernet packet to upper layers
according to clause 5.1.2.

6 Protocol data units, formats and parameters
=============================================

6.1 Protocol data units
-----------------------

### 6.1.1 PDCP Data PDU

The PDCP Data PDU is used to convey:

\- a PDCP SDU SN; and

\- for SLRBs used for one-to-many communication, PGK Index, PTK
Identity, and SDU type; or

\- for SLRBs used for one-to-one communication, K~D-sess~ Identity, and
SDU type; and

\- user plane data containing an uncompressed PDCP SDU; or

\- user plane data containing a compressed PDCP SDU; or

\- control plane data; and

\- a MAC-I field for SRBs; or

\- for the SLRB that needs integrity protection for one-to-one
communication, a MAC-I field; or

\- for RNs, a MAC-I field for DRB (if integrity protection is
configured);

### 6.1.2 PDCP Control PDU

The PDCP Control PDU is used to convey:

\- a PDCP status report indicating which PDCP SDUs are missing and which
are not following a PDCP re-establishment.

\- header compression control information, e.g. interspersed ROHC
feedback or EHC feedback.

\- a LWA status report.

\- a LWA end-marker packet.

6.2 Formats
-----------

### 6.2.1 General

A PDCP PDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8
bits) in length. In the figures in clause 6.2, bit strings are
represented by tables in which the most significant bit is the leftmost
bit of the first line of the table, the least significant bit is the
rightmost bit on the last line of the table, and more generally the bit
string is to be read from left to right and then in the reading order of
the lines. The bit order of each parameter field within a PDCP PDU is
represented with the first and most significant bit in the leftmost bit
and the last and least significant bit in the rightmost bit.

PDCP SDUs are bit strings that are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8
bits) in length. A compressed or uncompressed SDU is included into a
PDCP PDU from the first bit onward.

### 6.2.2 Control plane PDCP Data PDU

Figure 6.2.2.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU carrying data for
control plane SRBs.

Figure 6.2.2.1: PDCP Data PDU format for SRBs

### 6.2.3 User plane PDCP Data PDU with long PDCP SN (12 bits)

Figures 6.2.3.1 and 6.2.3.2 show the format of the downlink and uplink
PDCP Data PDUs respectively, when a 12 bit SN length is used. These
formats are applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying data from DRBs mapped
on RLC AM or RLC UM.

Figure 6.2.3.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using a 12 bit SN (for
downlink)

Figure 6.2.3.2: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using a 12 bit SN (for
uplink)

### 6.2.4 User plane PDCP Data PDU with short PDCP SN (7 bits)

Figure 6.2.4.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when a 7 bit SN
length is used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying
data from DRBs mapped on RLC UM or in NB-IoT DRBs mapped on RLC AM and
on RLC UM.

Figure 6.2.4.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using 7 bit SN

### 6.2.5 PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet

Figure 6.2.5.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one
interspersed ROHC feedback packet. This format is applicable for DRBs
mapped on RLC AM or RLC UM.

Figure 6.2.5.1: PDCP Control PDU format for interspersed ROHC feedback
packet

### 6.2.6 PDCP Control PDU for PDCP status report

Figure 6.2.6.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one
PDCP status report when a 12 bit SN length is used. This format is
applicable for DRBs mapped on RLC UM and RLC AM.

Figure 6.2.6.2 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one
PDCP status report when a 15 bit SN length is used, and Figure 6.2.6.3
shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one PDCP status report
when an 18 bit SN length is used. These formats are applicable for DRBs
mapped on RLC AM.

Figure 6.2.6.1: PDCP Control PDU format for PDCP status report using a
12 bit SN

Figure 6.2.6.2: PDCP Control PDU format for PDCP status report using a
15 bit SN

Figure 6.2.6.3: PDCP Control PDU format for PDCP status report using an
18 bit SN

### 6.2.7 Void

### 6.2.8 RN user plane PDCP Data PDU with integrity protection

Figure 6.2.8.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU for RNs when
integrity protection is used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data
PDUs carrying data from DRBs mapped on RLC AM or RLC UM.

Figure 6.2.8.1: PDCP Data PDU format for RN DRBs using integrity
protection

### 6.2.9 User plane PDCP Data PDU with extended PDCP SN (15 bits)

Figure 6.2.9.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when a 15 bit SN
length is used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying
data from DRBs mapped on RLC AM.

Figure 6.2.9.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using a 15 bit SN

### 6.2.10 User plane PDCP Data PDU for SLRB

Figure 6.2.10.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU for SLRB used for
one-to-many communication where a 16 bit SN length is used.

Figure 6.2.10.1: PDCP Data PDU format for SLRB used for one-to-many
communication

Figure 6.2.10.2 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU for SLRB used for
one-to-one communication where a 16 bit SN length is used. MAC-I field
is used only for the SLRB that needs integrity protection.

Figure 6.2.10.2: PDCP Data PDU format for SLRB used for one-to-one
communication

### 6.2.11 User plane PDCP Data PDU with further extended PDCP SN (18 bits)

Figure 6.2.11.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when an 18 bit SN
length is used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying
data from DRBs mapped on RLC AM. The UE not supporting LWA shall
consider the PDCP Data PDU invalid if the P bit is set to 1.

Figure 6.2.11.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using an 18 bit SN

### 6.2.12 PDCP Control PDU for LWA status report

Figure 6.2.12.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one
LWA status report when a 12 bit SN length is used, Figure 6.2.12.2 shows
the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one LWA status report when a
15 bit SN length is used, and Figure 6.2.12.3 shows the format of the
PDCP Control PDU carrying one LWA status report when an 18 bit SN length
is used. This format is applicable for LWA DRBs.

Figure 6.2.12.1: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA status report using a
12 bit SN

Figure 6.2.12.2: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA status report using a
15 bit SN

Figure 6.2.12.3: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA status report using an
18 bit SN

### 6.2.13 PDCP Control PDU for LWA end-marker packet

Figure 6.2.13.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU for LWA
end-marker packet when a 12 bit SN length is used, Figure 6.2.13.2 shows
the format of the PDCP Control PDU for LWA end-marker packet when a 15
bit SN length is used, and Figure 6.2.13.3 shows the format of the PDCP
Control PDU for LWA end-marker packet when an 18 bit SN length is used.

Figure 6.2.13.1: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA end-marker packet using
a 12 bit SN

Figure 6.2.13.2: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA end-marker packet using
a 15 bit SN

Figure 6.2.13.3: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA end-marker packet using
an 18 bit SN

### 6.2.14 User plane PDCP Data PDU with long PDCP SN (12 bits) for UDC

Figure 6.2.14.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when a 12 bit SN
length is used and UDC is configured. This format is applicable for
uplink PDCP Data PDUs carrying data from DRBs configured with UDC.

Figure 6.2.14.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using a 12 bit SN (UDC
configured)

### 6.2.15 User plane PDCP Data PDU with extended PDCP SN (15 bits) for UDC

Figure 6.2.15.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when a 15 bit SN
length is used and UDC is configured. This format is applicable for PDCP
Data PDUs carrying data from DRBs configured with UDC.

Figure 6.2.15.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using a 15 bit SN (UDC
configured)

### 6.2.16 User plane PDCP Data PDU with further extended PDCP SN (18 bits) for UDC

Figure 6.2.16.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when an 18 bit SN
length is used and UDC is configured. This format is applicable for
uplink PDCP Data PDUs carrying data from DRBs configured with UDC.

Figure 6.2.16.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using an 18 bit SN (UDC
configured)

### 6.2.17 PDCP Control PDU for UDC feedback packet

Figure 6.2.17.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU for UDC
feedback packet. This format is applicable for DRBs configured with UDC.

Figure 6.2.17.1: PDCP Control PDU format for UDC feedback packet

### 6.2.18 PDCP Control PDU for EHC feedback packet

Figure 6.2.18.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU for EHC
feedback packet. This format is applicable for DRBs mapped on RLC AM or
RLC UM.

Figure 6.2.18.1: PDCP Control PDU format for EHC feedback packet

6.3 Parameters
--------------

### 6.3.1 General

If not otherwise mentioned in the definition of each field then the bits
in the parameters shall be interpreted as follows: the left most bit
string is the first and most significant and the right most bit is the
last and least significant bit.

Unless otherwise mentioned, integers are encoded in standard binary
encoding for unsigned integers. In all cases the bits appear ordered
from MSB to LSB when read in the PDU.

### 6.3.2 PDCP SN

Length: 5, 7, 12, 15, 16, or 18 bits as indicated in table 6.3.2.1
except for NB-IoT which uses 7 bit PDCP SN for DRB.

Table 6.3.2.1: PDCP SN length

  -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Length   Description
  5        SRBs
  7        DRBs, if configured by upper layers (*pdcp-SN-Size*, see TS 36.331 \[3\])
  12       DRBs, if configured by upper layers (*pdcp-SN-Size*, see TS 36.331 \[3\])
  15       DRBs, if configured by upper layers (*pdcp-SN-Size*, see TS 36.331 \[3\])
  16       SLRBs
  18       DRBs, if configured by upper layers (*pdcp-SN-Size*, see TS 36.331 \[3\])
  -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3.3 Data

Length: Variable

The Data field may include either one of the following:

\- Uncompressed PDCP SDU (user plane data, or control plane data); or

\- Compressed PDCP SDU (user plane data only); or

\- UDC header and UDC Data Block if UDC is configured.

NOTE: All fields other than PDCP PDU header and MAC-I belong to Data
field.‎

### 6.3.4 MAC-I

Length: 32 bits

The MAC-I field carries a message authentication code calculated as
specified in clause 5.7.

For control plane data that are not integrity protected, the MAC-I field
is still present and should be padded with padding bits set to 0.

### 6.3.5 COUNT

Length: 32 bits

For ciphering and integrity a COUNT value is maintained. The COUNT value
is composed of a HFN and the PDCP SN. The length of the PDCP SN is
configured by upper layers.

Figure 6.3.5.1: Format of COUNT

The size of the HFN part in bits is equal to 32 minus the length of the
PDCP SN.

NOTE: When performing comparison of values related to COUNT, the UE
takes into account that COUNT is a 32-bit value, which may wrap around
(e.g., COUNT value of 2^32^ - 1 is less than COUNT value of 0).

### 6.3.6 R

Length: 1 bit

Reserved. In this version of the specification reserved bits shall be
set to 0. Reserved bits shall be ignored by the receiver.

### 6.3.7 D/C

Length: 1 bit

Table 6.3.7.1: D/C field

  ----- -------------
  Bit   Description
  0     Control PDU
  1     Data PDU
  ----- -------------

### 6.3.8 PDU type

Length: 3 bits

Table 6.3.8.1: PDU type

  --------- -----------------------------------
  Bit       Description
  000       PDCP status report
  001       Interspersed ROHC feedback packet
  010       LWA status report
  011       LWA end-marker packet
  100       UDC feedback packet
  101       EHC feedback packet
  110-111   reserved
  --------- -----------------------------------

### 6.3.9 FMS

Length: 12 bits when a 12 bit SN length is used, 15 bits when a 15 bit
SN length is used, and 18 bits when an 18 bit SN length is used

PDCP SN of the first missing PDCP SDU.

### 6.3.10 Bitmap

Length: Variable

The length of the bitmap field can be 0.

The MSB of the first octet of the type \"Bitmap\" indicates whether or
not the PDCP SDU with the SN (FMS + 1) modulo (Maximum\_PDCP\_SN + 1)
has been received and, optionally decompressed correctly. The LSB of the
first octet of the type \"Bitmap\" indicates whether or not the PDCP SDU
with the SN (FMS + 8) modulo (Maximum\_PDCP\_SN + 1) has been received
and, optionally decompressed correctly.

Table 6.3.10.1 Bitmap

  ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Bit   Description
  0     PDCP SDU with PDCP SN = (FMS + bit position) modulo (Maximum\_PDCP\_SN + 1) is missing in the receiver. The bit position of N^th^ bit in the Bitmap is N, i.e., the bit position of the first bit in the Bitmap is 1.
  1     PDCP SDU with PDCP SN = (FMS + bit position) modulo (Maximum\_PDCP\_SN + 1) does not need to be retransmitted. The bit position of N^th^ bit in the Bitmap is N, i.e., the bit position of the first bit in the Bitmap is 1.
  ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The UE fills the bitmap indicating which SDUs are missing (unset bit -
\'0\'), i.e. whether an SDU has not been received or optionally has been
received but has not been decompressed correctly, and which SDUs do not
need retransmission (set bit - \'1\'), i.e. whether an SDU has been
received correctly and may or may not have been decompressed correctly.

### 6.3.11 Interspersed ROHC feedback packet

Length: Variable

Contains one ROHC packet with only feedback, i.e. a ROHC packet that is
not associated with a PDCP SDU as defined in clause 5.5.4.

### 6.3.12 PGK Index

Length: 5 bits

5 LSBs of PGK Identity as specified in TS 33.303 \[13\].

### 6.3.13 PTK Identity

Length: 16 bits

PTK Identity as specified in TS 33.303 \[13\].

### 6.3.14 SDU Type

Length: 3 bits

PDCP SDU type, i.e. Layer-3 Protocol Data Unit type as specified in
\[14\]. PDCP entity may handle the SDU differently per SDU Type, e.g.
ROHC is applicable to IP SDU but not ARP SDU and Non-IP SDU.

Table 6.3.14.1: SDU Type

  --------- ---------------
  Bit       Description
  000       IP
  001       ARP
  010       PC5 Signaling
  011       Non-IP
  100-111   reserved
  --------- ---------------

### 6.3.15 K~D-sess~ ID

Length: 16 bits

K~D-sess~ Identity as specified in TS 33.303 \[13\].

### 6.3.16 NMP

Length: 12 bits when a 12 bit SN length is used, 15 bits when a 15 bit
SN length is used, and 18 bits when an 18 bit SN length is used.

Number of missing PDCP SDU(s) with associated COUNT value below the
associated COUNT value corresponding to HRW, starting from and including
the associated COUNT value corresponding to FMS.

### 6.3.17 HRW

Length: 12 bits when a 12 bit SN length is used, 15 bits when a 15 bit
SN length is used and 18 bits when an 18 bit SN length is used.

PDCP SN of the PDCP SDU received on WLAN with highest associated PDCP
COUNT value.

### 6.3.18 P

Length: 1 bit

Polling indication. The P field indicates whether the UE is requested to
send a PDCP status report or a LWA status report for LWA. The field is
not applicable to uplink PDCP PDUs and the UE shall set the P field to
0.

Table 6.3.18.1: P field

  ----- --------------------------------
  Bit   Description
  0     Status report is not requested
  1     Status report is requested
  ----- --------------------------------

### 6.3.19 LSN

Length: 12 bits when a 12 bit SN length is used, 15 bits when a 15 bit
SN length is used, and 18 bits when an 18 bit SN length is used

PDCP SN of the last PDCP PDU for which the data part is ciphered with
the key used before PDCP re-establishment. Only applicable for the case
when upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment for a LWA bearer where
LWA configuration is retained with the same WT.

6.3.20 AILC

Length: 1 bit

The AILC field indicates that corresponding PDCP SDU in the uplink PDCP
PDU may be transferred to the local cache entity when PDCP entity is
configured by upper layers, i.e. ailc-BitConfig, as specified in TS
36.331 \[3\]. If the PDCP SDU may be transferred to the local cache
entity, the AILC field shall be set to 1, otherwise to 0.

Table 6.3.20.1: AILC field

  ----- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Bit   Description
  0     Indicates that the SDU need not to be transferred to the local cache entity
  1     Indicates that the SDU may be transferred to the local cache entity.
  ----- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3.21 FU

Length: 1 bit

Indication of whether this packet is compressed by UDC protocol or not.
Value \'1\' means the packet is compressed by UDC protocol.

Table 6.3.21.1: FU field

  ----- ---------------------------------------------
  Bit   Description
  0     Packet is not compressed using UDC protocol
  1     Packet is compressed using UDC protocol
  ----- ---------------------------------------------

### 6.3.22 FR

Length: 1 bit

Indication of whether UDC compression buffer is reset or not. Value
\'1\' means this is the first compressed packet after UDC buffer reset.

Table 6.3.22.1: FR field

  ----- ------------------------------------
  Bit   Description
  0     Compression buffer is not reset.
  1     Compression buffer has been reset.
  ----- ------------------------------------

### 6.3.23 Checksum

Length: 4 bits

This field contains the validation bits for the compression buffer
content: The checksum is calculated by the content of current
compression buffer before the current packet is put into buffer.

The checksum is derived from the values of the first 4 bytes and the
last 4 bytes in the whole compression buffer. The calculation is
described as follows:

\- Each byte is divided into two 4-bit numbers.

\- The 16 4-bit numbers are added together to obtain a sum;

\- The checksum is one\'s complement of the right-most 4 bits (i.e. 4
LSB) of the sum.

An example of checksum calculation is shown in Annex A.

### 6.3.24 FE

Length: 1 bit

Indication of whether checksum error is detected or not. Value \'1\'
means checksum error is detected and the UE shall reset the compression
buffer.

Table 6.3.24.1: FE field

  ----- -----------------------------
  Bit   Description
  0     No Error
  1     Checksum Error Notification
  ----- -----------------------------

7 Variables, constants and timers
=================================

7.1 State variables
-------------------

This clause describes the state variables used in PDCP entities in order
to specify the PDCP protocol.

All state variables are non-negative integers.

The transmitting side of each PDCP entity shall maintain the following
state variables:

a\) Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN

The variable Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN indicates the PDCP SN of the next PDCP
SDU for a given PDCP entity. At establishment of the PDCP entity, the UE
shall set Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN to 0. For the PDCP entity mapped with SLRB
of which the indicated *SL-V2X-TxProfile* is *rel15* (see TS 36.331
\[3\]), the UE shall set Next\_PDCP\_TX\_SN to 1 at establishment of the
PDCP entity.

b\) TX\_HFN

The variable TX\_HFN indicates the HFN value for the generation of the
COUNT value used for PDCP PDUs for a given PDCP entity. At establishment
of the PDCP entity, the UE shall set TX\_HFN to 0.

The receiving side of each PDCP entity shall maintain the following
state variables:

c\) Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN

The variable Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN indicates the next expected PDCP SN by
the receiver for a given PDCP entity. At establishment of the PDCP
entity, the UE shall set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to 0. For the PDCP entity
mapped with SLRB of which the indicated *SL-V2X-TxProfile* is *rel15*
(see TS 36.331 \[3\]), the UE shall set Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to (x +1)
modulo (Maximum\_PDCP\_SN + 1), where x is the SN of the first received
PDCP Data PDU with SN not set to \"0\".

d\) RX\_HFN

The variable RX\_HFN indicates the HFN value for the generation of the
COUNT value used for the received PDCP PDUs for a given PDCP entity. At
establishment of the PDCP entity, the UE shall set RX\_HFN to 0.

e\) Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN

The variable Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN indicates the SN of the last
PDCP SDU delivered to the upper layers. At establishment of the PDCP
entity, the UE shall set Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to
Maximum\_PDCP\_SN. For the PDCP entity mapped with SLRB of which the
indicated *SL-V2X-TxProfile* is *rel15* (see TS 36.331 \[3\]), the UE
shall set Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to (x -- 0.5 \*
Reordering\_Window) modulo (Maximum\_PDCP\_SN + 1), where x is the SN of
the first received PDCP Data PDU with SN not set to \"0\". When upper
layers reconfigure the PDCP entity to configure DAPS for a DRB mapped on
RLC UM, the UE shall set Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN to
(Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN -- 1) modulo (Maximum\_PDCP\_SN + 1).

f\) Reordering\_PDCP\_RX\_COUNT

This variable is used only when the reordering function is used. This
variable holds the value of the COUNT following the COUNT value
associated with the PDCP PDU which triggered *t-Reordering*. When upper
layers reconfigure the PDCP entity to configure DAPS, the UE shall set
Reordering\_PDCP\_RX\_COUNT to the COUNT value associated to RX\_HFN and
Next\_PDCP\_RX\_SN.

7.2 Timers
----------

The transmitting side of each PDCP entity for DRBs shall maintain the
following timers:

a\) *discardTimer*

The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers, see TS 36.331
\[3\]. In the transmitter, a new timer is started upon reception of an
SDU from upper layer.

The receiving side of each PDCP entity shall maintain the following
timers only when the reordering function is used:

b\) *t-Reordering*

The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers, see(TS 36.331
\[3\], except for the case of Sidelink reception when the reordering
function is used. For when the reordering function is used reception
when the reordering function is used, the *t-Reordering* timer is
determined by the UE implementation. This timer is used to detect loss
of PDCP PDUs as specified in the clause 5.1.2.1.4. If *t-Reordering* is
running, *t-Reordering* shall not be started additionally, i.e. only one
*t-Reordering* per PDCP entity is running at a given time.

The receiving side of each PDCP entity associated with LWA bearers shall
maintain the following timers:

c\) *t-StatusReportType1*

The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers
(*statusPDU-Periodicity-Type1*, see TS 36.331 \[3\]). This timer is used
to trigger status report transmission for LWA as specified in the clause
5.10.

d\) *t-StatusReportType2*

The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers
(*statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2* and *statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset*, see
TS 36.331 \[3\]). If *statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset is configured* and it
is the first run of the timer after (re)configuration, the duration of
the timer is the sum of *statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2* and
*statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset*, see TS 36.331 \[3\], otherwise the
duration of the timer is *statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2*. When configured,
this timer is used to trigger status report transmission for LWA as
specified in the clause 5.10.

7.3 Constants
-------------

a\) Reordering\_Window

Indicates the size of the reordering window. The size equals to 16 when
a 5 bit SN length is used, 64 when a 7 bit SN length is used, 2048 when
a 12 bit SN length is used, 16384 when a 15 bit SN length is used, 32768
when a 16 bit SN length is used, or 131072 when 18 bit SN length is
used, i.e. half of the PDCP SN space, for radio bearers that are mapped
on RLC AM, for LWA bearers and for SLRBs when the reordering function is
used.

b\) Maximum\_PDCP\_SN is:

\- 262143 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 18 bits SNs

\- 65535 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 16 bits SNs

\- 32767 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 15 bits SNs

\- 4095 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 12 bit SNs

\- 127 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 7 bit SNs

\- 31 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 5 bit SNs

########  Annex A (informative): An example of UDC Checksum calculation

The current UDC compression/decompression buffer has the following
binary values for example:

Header
\<1,1,0,0,0,1,0,1,0,0,1,1,1,1,1,1,0,0,0,1,1,0,0,1,0,1,0,1,0,0,0,1,
......,
0,1,1,1,1,1,0,1,1,0,0,0,1,0,1,0,1,0,0,1,1,1,1,1,1,0,0,1,1,1,0,0\> Tail

The sum of the first 4 bytes and the last 4 bytes can be calculated:

1100+0101+0011+1111+0001+1001+0101+0001+0111+1101+1000+1010+1001+1111+1001+1100
= 10000110;

And checksum value will be one\'s complement of the right-most 4 bits
(i.e. 4 LSB) of the above sum. Hence checksum is 1001.

########  Annex B (informative): Change history

  ------------------------------------- ------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
  Change history after change control                                                                                                                                                                          
  Date                                  TSG     TSG Doc.    CR     Rev   Cat   Subject/Comment                                                                                                                 New version
  2007-12                               RP-38   RP-070919   \-     \-          Approved at TSG-RAN \#38 and placed under Change Control                                                                        8.0.0
  2008-03                               RP-39   RP-080197   0001   \-          CR to 36.323 with Update of E-UTRAN PDCP specification                                                                          8.1.0
  2008-05                               RP-40   RP-080412   0002   \-          Clarification of the BSR calculation                                                                                            8.2.0
                                        RP-40   RP-080412   0003   1           PDCP minor changes                                                                                                              8.2.0
                                        RP-40   RP-080387   0004   3           Addition of a duplicate discard window                                                                                          8.2.0
                                        RP-40   RP-080412   0006   \-          Reference to ROHCv2 profiles                                                                                                    8.2.0
                                        RP-40   RP-080412   0010   \-          Bitmap in the DL PDCP status report                                                                                             8.2.0
                                        \-      \-          \-     \-          Corrections to clauses 5.5.1.1, 5.5.1.2.1 and 5.8 to correctly implement CR0004 Rev 3 (instead of CR0004 Rev 2 of RP-080412).   8.2.1
  2008-09                               RP-41   RP-080692   0013   \-          Restructuring of PDCP specification                                                                                             8.3.0
                                        RP-41   RP-080692   0016   \-          Miscellaneous PDCP corrections                                                                                                  8.3.0
                                        RP-41   RP-080692   0023   \-          Correction to the PDCP structure                                                                                                8.3.0
                                        RP-41   RP-080692   0033   \-          Initial TX\_HFN and RX\_HFN values                                                                                              8.3.0
  2008-12                               RP-42   RP-081020   0038   \-          Clarification with regards to the PDCP state variables                                                                          8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0039   \-          CR 0039 to 36.323 on Correction to PDCP functional view                                                                         8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0040   \-          PDCP \"in-sequence delivery and duplicate elimination\" always on                                                               8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0041   \-          Proposed CR to 36.323 on Processing of PDCP SDU received from upper layer                                                       8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0042   \-          Error in AM receive window behaviour                                                                                            8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0047   \-          Proposed CR on the described scope of Last\_Submitted\_PDCP\_RX\_SN                                                             8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0048   \-          Proposed CR to move DIRECTION from parameters provided by upper layer                                                           8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0049   \-          Clarification on COUNT                                                                                                          8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0050   \-          Correction to PDCP procedure for SRB                                                                                            8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0052   \-          Correction to the PDCP re-establishment procedure                                                                               8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0054   \-          Correction to PDCP functional view                                                                                              8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0055   \-          Miscellaneous PDCP corrections                                                                                                  8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0057   \-          Proposed CR for error handling                                                                                                  8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0060   \-          Proposed CR to 36.323 on Correction to PDCP Control PDU description                                                             8.4.0
                                        RP-42   RP-081020   0061   1           Corrections to PDCP STATUS REPORT                                                                                               8.4.0
  2009-03                               RP-43   RP-090130   0064   \-          CR to specify maximum PDCP SDU size                                                                                             8.5.0
                                        RP-43   RP-090130   0065   \-          CR with correction on PDCP function of maintaining SNs                                                                          8.5.0
                                        RP-43   RP-090130   0066   \-          Miscellaneous corrections to 36.323                                                                                             8.5.0
                                        RP-43   RP-090130   0067   \-          Minor issues on PDCP                                                                                                            8.5.0
                                        RP-43   RP-090130   0068   \-          Security related corrections                                                                                                    8.5.0
                                        RP-43   RP-090130   0069   \-          CR to 36.323 on RRC Parameters                                                                                                  8.5.0
                                        RP-43   RP-090130   0070   1           Corrections on BSR reporting and transmission/ retransmission after an Handover                                                 8.5.0
                                        RP-43   RP-090130   0071   \-          Corrections on PDCP services and functions                                                                                      8.5.0
                                        RP-43   RP-090130   0077   \-          PDCP Control PDU as Data Available for transmission in PDCP                                                                     8.5.0
  2009-06                               RP-44   RP-090515   0078   1           PDCP Status Report                                                                                                              8.6.0
                                        RP-44   RP-090515   0079   1           Correction to PDCP PDU submission condition in lower layer re-establishment                                                     8.6.0
                                        RP-44   RP-090515   0080   2           Minor correction and clarification to 36.323                                                                                    8.6.0
  2009-12                               RP-46   \-          \-                 Upgrade to the Release 9 - no technical change                                                                                  9.0.0
  2010-12                               RP-50   \-          \-                 Upgrade to the Release 10 - no technical change                                                                                 10.0.0
  2011-03                               RP-51   RP-110280   0086   \-          Clarification on the number of ROHC instances in a PDCP entity                                                                  10.1.0
                                        RP-51   RP-110291   0087   \-          Addition of integrity protection of DRBs in PDCP for RNs                                                                        10.1.0
  2012-03                               RP-57   RP-121377   0099   1           Introduction of Carrier aggregation enhancements                                                                                11.0.0
  2012-12                               RP-58   RP-121959   0100   \-          CR to 36.323 on introducing ROHC context continue for intra-ENB handover                                                        11.1.0
                                        RP-58   RP-121959   0104   1           ROHC mode upon handover                                                                                                         11.1.0
                                        RP-58   RP-121936   0106   \-          Prevention of HFN de-synchronization due to PDCP SN over-allocation                                                             11.1.0
  2013-03                               RP-59   RP-130248   0109   \-          ROHC mode upon handover in UM DRB                                                                                               11.2.0
  2014-06                               RP-64   RP-140869   0113   \-          Clarification of CID reuse                                                                                                      11.3.0
                                        RP-64   RP-140892   0123   \-          ROHC Feedback Handling                                                                                                          12.0.0
  2014-09                               RP-65   RP-141498   0126   \-          Clarification of the decompressor state and mode after PDCP re-establishment                                                    12.1.0
  2014-12                               RP-66   RP-142135   0128   1           Introduction of dual connectivity in PDCP                                                                                       12.2.0
  2015-03                               RP-67   RP-150373   0133   \-          Reconfiguration of PDCP reordering timer                                                                                        12.3.0
                                        RP-67   RP-150374   0135   \-          Introduction of ProSe Direct Communication                                                                                      12.3.0
  2015-06                               RP-68   RP-150921   0137   \-          COUNT derivation in ProSe                                                                                                       12.4.0
                                        RP-68   RP-150921   0138   \-          Miscellaneous corrections for DC                                                                                                12.4.0
                                        RP-68   RP-150921   0139   \-          BSR Triggering for Split Bearers                                                                                                12.4.0
  2015-12                               RP-70   RP-152053   0145   \-          Corrections to Sidelink                                                                                                         12.5.0
                                        RP-70   RP-152053   0144   1           Update to Services expected from Lower Layers in DC                                                                             12.5.0
  2015-12                               RP-70   RP-152074   0146   \-          Introduction of UL split bearer in PDCP                                                                                         13.0.0
                                        RP-70   RP-152071   0148   1           Introduction of enhanced CA in PDCP                                                                                             13.0.0
                                        RP-70   RP-152072   0149   2           Introducing enhanced ProSe                                                                                                      13.0.0
  2016-03                               RP-71   RP-160454   0155   \-          Correction for KD-sess Identity in 36.323                                                                                       13.1.0
                                        RP-71   RP-160457   0158   4           Introduction of LWA into PDCP specification                                                                                     13.1.0
  2016-06                               RP-72   RP-161080   0160   \-          Clarification on LWA                                                                                                            13.2.0
                                        RP-72   RP-161078   0162   1           Data available for transmission due to PDCP data recovery                                                                       13.2.0
                                        RP-72   RP-161080   0163   \-          Correction for sidelink                                                                                                         13.2.0
                                        RP-72   RP-161078   0165   \-          Corrections on RoHC description                                                                                                 13.2.0
                                        RP-72   RP-161080   0166   1           Clarification on Control PDU for LWA                                                                                            13.2.0
                                        RP-72   RP-161080   0169   \-          Polling for LWA status report                                                                                                   13.2.0
                                        RP-72   RP-161091   0171   4           Introduction of NB-IoT functionality to PDCP protocol                                                                           13.2.0
                                        RP-72   RP-161080   0172   \-          PDCP CR to capture C-IoT optimizations for non-NB-IoT UEs                                                                       13.2.0
  2016-06                               RP-72   RP-161080   0160   \-          Missing changes from CR0160 (Clarification on LWA) added                                                                        13.2.1
  2016-09                               RP-73   RP-161756   0175   1           Addition of COUNT determination for the purpose of HRW setting                                                                  13.3.0
                                        RP-73   RP-161756   0177   1           Clarification on NMP in LWA status report                                                                                       13.3.0
                                        RP-73   RP-161756   0179   \-          Corrections to PDCP Status Reporting                                                                                            13.3.0
  2016-09                               RP-73   \-          \-     \-          MCC cleanup and missing text from v13.2.1 added                                                                                 13.3.1
  2016-09                               RP-73   RP-161746   0174   2           Introduction of PC5 V2V for 36.323                                                                                              14.0.0
  2016-09                               RP-73   \-          \-     \-          MCC cleanup                                                                                                                     14.0.1
  2016-12                               RP-74   RP-162318   0182   \-          Correction of security handling upon connection suspension                                                                      14.1.0
                                        RP-74   RP-162317   0185   1           Corrections to handling of uplink split                                                                                         14.1.0
  2017-03                               RP-75   RP-170655   0188   \-    A     Correction on channel bandwidth definition for NB-IoT                                                                           14.2.0
                                        RP-75   RP-170643   0189   \-    F     Corrections on V2V in TS 36.323                                                                                                 14.2.0
                                        RP-75   RP-170628   0191   2     B     Introduction of Enhanced LTE-WLAN Aggregation (eLWA)                                                                            14.2.0
                                        RP-76   RP-171225   0197   1     F     Update of ROHC profile reference                                                                                                14.3.0
                                        RP-76   RP-171225   0198   \-    B     Enable Uplink-Only RoHC operations                                                                                              14.3.0
                                        RP-76   RP-171244   0199   \-    A     Clarification on polling                                                                                                        14.3.0
  2017-09                               RP-77   RP-171915   0200   3     C     Support of RLC UM for LWA bearer                                                                                                14.4.0
  2017-12                               RP-78   RP-172617   0210   \-    F     Correction to RLC UM for LWA                                                                                                    14.5.0
                                        RP-78   RP-172617   0216   1     F     Deliver stored PDCP SDUs for LWA bearer with RLC UM at PDCP re-establishment                                                    14.5.0
  2018-07                               RP-80   RP-181221   0211   4     B     Running 36.323 CR to introduce assistance information for local cache                                                           15.0.0
                                        RP-80   RP-181226   0217   3     B     Introduction of DEFLATE based UDC Solution                                                                                      15.0.0
                                        RP-80   RP-181252   0231   2     B     Introduction of further NB-IoT enhancements in 36.323                                                                           15.0.0
                                        RP-80   RP-181248   0232   2     B     Introduction of V2X duplication to TS 36.323                                                                                    15.0.0
                                        RP-80   RP-181247   0235   \-    B     Introduction of Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communication for LTE                                                                15.0.0
  2018-09                               RP-81   RP-181955   0237   1     F     Calculation of checksum                                                                                                         15.1.0
                                        RP-81   RP-181955   0238   \-    F     Correction to description for UDC-only PDU                                                                                      15.1.0
                                        RP-81   RP-181949   0241   \-    F     Deliver stored PDCP SDUs for UM DRB at PDCP re-establishment                                                                    15.1.0
  2018-12                               RP-82   RP-182678   0243   2     F     CR on supporting of the ROHC for PDCP duplication                                                                               15.2.0
                                        RP-82   RP-182678   0249   3     F     Correction on PDCP for eV2X                                                                                                     15.2.0
                                        RP-82   RP-182679   0255   4     F     Correction on PDCP duplication                                                                                                  15.2.0
                                        RP-82   RP-182678   0264   1     F     Correction to SLRB and state variables for sidelink transmission                                                                15.2.0
                                        RP-82   RP-182678   0265   \-    F     Header Decompression for SLRB                                                                                                   15.2.0
  2019-03                               RP-83   RP-190552   0266   1     F     Correction on UDC data format                                                                                                   15.3.0
                                        RP-83   RP-190551   0270   1     F     CR on ROHC for V2X                                                                                                              15.3.0
                                        RP-83   RP-190552   0271   1     F     CR on PDCP structure for split bearer and LWA bearer                                                                            15.3.0
  2019-06                               RP-84   RP-191385   0272   1     F     CR on HFN maintainance                                                                                                          15.4.0
                                        RP-84   RP-191387   0273   \-    F     Clarification of the PDCP structure                                                                                             15.4.0
  2019-12                               RP-86   RP-192941   0277   \-    F     Specify UDC Header is part of Data Field                                                                                        15.5.0
  2020-03                               RP-87   RP-200450   0278   1     B     Introducing EHC in LTE PDCP                                                                                                     16.0.0
                                        RP-87   RP-200364   0279   2     B     Introduction of DAPS handover                                                                                                   16.0.0
  2020-07                               RP-88   RP-201168   0281   2     A     Correction on SRB duplication                                                                                                   16.1.0
                                        RP-88   RP-201195   0282   3     C     CR on 36.323 for LTE feMob                                                                                                      16.1.0
                                        RP-88   RP-201168   0284   1     A     CR on RLC out-of-order delivery configuration                                                                                   16.1.0
                                        RP-88   RP-201181   0286   1     F     LTE PDCP corrections for NR IIOT                                                                                                16.1.0
  2020-09                               RP-89   RP-201933   0287   1     F     Correction for PDCP status report                                                                                               16.2.0
                                        RP-89   RP-201963   0290   1     F     CR on LTE PDCP re-establishment when t-Reordering is used                                                                       16.2.0
  2020-12                               RP-90   RP-202773   0291   1     F     CR on LTE PDCP re-establishment for UM DRB when t-Reordering is used                                                            16.3.0
  2021-09                               RP-93   RP-212442   0296   1     F     CR for LTE PDCP operation after DAPS release                                                                                    16.4.0
  2021-12                               RP-94   RP-213343   0298   2     A     Clarification on Security Coverage                                                                                              16.5.0
  2022-06                               RP-96   RP-221713   0300   1     F     CR for EHC decompression                                                                                                        16.6.0
  2022-12                               RP-98   RP-223406   0308   1     F     Data available transmission for DAPS                                                                                            16.7.0
  ------------------------------------- ------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
