3GPP TS 36.322 V16.0.0 (2020-07)

Technical Specification

3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);

Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification

(Release 16)

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.

The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organisational Partners and shall not be implemented.

This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organisational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organisational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> LTE, E-UTRAN, radio
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 5

1 Scope 6

2 References 6

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 6

3.1 Definitions 6

3.2 Abbreviations 7

4 General 8

4.1 Introduction 8

4.2 RLC architecture 8

4.2.1 RLC entities 8

4.2.1.1 TM RLC entity 9

4.2.1.1.1 General 9

4.2.1.1.2 Transmitting TM RLC entity 10

4.2.1.1.3 Receiving TM RLC entity 10

4.2.1.2 UM RLC entity 10

4.2.1.2.1 General 10

4.2.1.2.2 Transmitting UM RLC entity 11

4.2.1.2.3 Receiving UM RLC entity 11

4.2.1.3 AM RLC entity 12

4.2.1.3.1 General 12

4.2.1.3.2 Transmitting side 12

4.2.1.3.3 Receiving side 13

4.3 Services 13

4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers 13

4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers 13

4.4 Functions 13

4.5 Data available for transmission 14

5 Procedures 14

5.1 Data transfer procedures 14

5.1.1 TM data transfer 14

5.1.1.1 Transmit operations 14

5.1.1.1.1 General 14

5.1.1.2 Receive operations 14

5.1.1.2.1 General 14

5.1.2 UM data transfer 14

5.1.2.1 Transmit operations 14

5.1.2.1.1 General 14

5.1.2.2 Receive operations 15

5.1.2.2.1 General 15

5.1.2.2.2 Actions when an UMD PDU is received from lower layer 15

5.1.2.2.3 Actions when an UMD PDU is placed in the reception buffer 15

5.1.2.2.4 Actions when *t-Reordering* expires 16

5.1.3 AM data transfer 16

5.1.3.1 Transmit operations 16

5.1.3.1.1 General 16

5.1.3.2 Receive operations 17

5.1.3.2.1 General 17

5.1.3.2.2 Actions when a RLC data PDU is received from lower layer 17

5.1.3.2.3 Actions when a RLC data PDU is placed in the reception buffer
17

5.1.3.2.4 Actions when *t-Reordering* expires 18

5.2 ARQ procedures 18

5.2.1 Retransmission 18

5.2.2 Polling 19

5.2.2.1 Transmission of a AMD PDU or AMD PDU segment 19

5.2.2.2 Reception of a STATUS report 20

5.2.2.3 Expiry of *t-PollRetransmit* 20

5.2.3 Status reporting 20

5.3 SDU discard procedures 21

5.4 Re-establishment procedure 22

5.5 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data 22

5.5.1 Reception of PDU with reserved or invalid values 22

6 Protocol data units, formats and parameters 22

6.1 Protocol data units 22

6.1.1 RLC data PDU 22

6.1.2 RLC control PDU 23

6.2 Formats and parameters 23

6.2.1 Formats 23

6.2.1.1 General 23

6.2.1.2 TMD PDU 23

6.2.1.3 UMD PDU 23

6.2.1.4 AMD PDU 26

6.2.1.5 AMD PDU segment 29

6.2.1.6 STATUS PDU 33

6.2.2 Parameters 34

6.2.2.1 General 34

6.2.2.2 Data field 34

6.2.2.3 Sequence Number (SN) field 34

6.2.2.4 Extension bit (E) field 35

6.2.2.5 Length Indicator (LI) field 35

6.2.2.6 Framing Info (FI) field 35

6.2.2.7 Segment Offset (SO) field 35

6.2.2.8 Last Segment Flag (LSF) field 36

6.2.2.9 Data/Control (D/C) field 36

6.2.2.10 Re-segmentation Flag (RF) field 36

6.2.2.11 Polling bit (P) field 36

6.2.2.12 Reserved 1 (R1) field 36

6.2.2.13 Control PDU Type (CPT) field 36

6.2.2.14 Acknowledgement SN (ACK\_SN) field 37

6.2.2.15 Extension bit 1 (E1) field 37

6.2.2.16 Negative Acknowledgement SN (NACK\_SN) field 37

6.2.2.17 Extension bit 2 (E2) field 37

6.2.2.18 SO start (SOstart) field 37

6.2.2.19 SO end (SOend) field 38

7 Variables, constants and timers 38

7.1 State variables 38

7.2 Constants 40

7.3 Timers 40

7.4 Configurable parameters 40

Annex A (normative): List of CRs Containing Early Implementable Features
and Corrections 41

Annex B (informative): Change history 41

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the E-UTRA Radio Link Control (RLC)
protocol for the UE -- E-UTRAN radio interface.

The specification describes:

\- E-UTRA RLC sublayer architecture;

\- E-UTRA RLC entities;

\- services expected from lower layers by E-UTRA RLC;

\- services provided to upper layers by E-UTRA RLC;

\- E-UTRA RLC functions;

\- elements for peer-to-peer E-UTRA RLC communication including protocol
data units, formats and parameters;

\- handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data at E-UTRA
RLC.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"E-UTRA and E-UTRAN Overall Description; Stage
2\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"E-UTRA MAC protocol specification\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"E-UTRA PDCP specification\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA RRC Protocol specification\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved
Packet System (EPS); Stage 3\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Technical Specification Group Services and
System Aspects; Proximity-based services (ProSe)\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**byte segment:** A byte of the Data field of an AMD PDU. Specifically,
byte segment number 0 corresponds to the first byte of the Data field of
an AMD PDU.

**Data field element:** An RLC SDU or an RLC SDU segment that is mapped
to the Data field.

**NB-IoT:** NB-IoT allows access to network services via E-UTRA with a
channel bandwidth limited to 200 kHz.

**NB-IoT UE**: A UE that uses NB-IoT.

**RLC SDU segment:** A segment of an RLC SDU.

**Sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct
Communication as defined in TS 23.303 \[7\], between two or more nearby
UEs, using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node. In
this version, the terminology \"sidelink communication\" without \"V2X\"
prefix only concerns PS unless specifically stated otherwise.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

AM Acknowledged Mode

AMD AM Data

ARQ Automatic Repeat reQuest

BCCH Broadcast Control CHannel

BCH Broadcast CHannel

BR-BCCH Bandwidth Reduced Broadcast Control CHannel

CCCH Common Control CHannel

DCCH Dedicated Control CHannel

DL DownLink

DL-SCH DL-Shared CHannel

DTCH Dedicated Traffic CHannel

E Extension bit

eNB E-UTRAN Node B

E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network

FI Framing Info

HARQ Hybrid ARQ

LI Length Indicator

LSF Last Segment Flag

MAC Medium Access Control

MCCH Multicast Control Channel

MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel

NB-IoT NarrowBand Internet of Things

PCCH Paging Control CHannel

PDU Protocol Data Unit

PS Public Safety

RLC Radio Link Control

RRC Radio Resource Control

SAP Service Access Point

SBCCH Sidelink Broadcast Control Channel

SC-MCCH Single Cell Multicast Control Channel

SC-MTCH Single Cell Multicast Transport Channel

SDU Service Data Unit

SN Sequence Number

SO Segment Offset

STCH Sidelink Traffic Channel

TB Transport Block

TM Transparent Mode

TMD TM Data

UE User Equipment

UL UpLink

UM Unacknowledged Mode

UMD UM Data

V2X Vehicle-to-Everything

4 General
=========

4.1 Introduction
----------------

The objective is to describe the RLC architecture and the RLC entities
from a functional point of view.

4.2 RLC architecture
--------------------

### 4.2.1 RLC entities

The description in this sub clause is a model and does not specify or
restrict implementations.

RRC is generally in control of the RLC configuration. For NB-IoT, RRC
configurable parameters are specified in *RLC-Config-NB* \[5\].

Functions of the RLC sub layer are performed by RLC entities. For a RLC
entity configured at the eNB, there is a peer RLC entity configured at
the UE and vice versa. For an RLC entity configured at the transmitting
UE for STCH or SBCCH there is a peer RLC entity configured at each
receiving UE for STCH or SBCCH.

An RLC entity receives/delivers RLC SDUs from/to upper layer and
sends/receives RLC PDUs to/from its peer RLC entity via lower layers. An
RLC PDU can either be a RLC data PDU (see sub clause 6.1.1) or a RLC
control PDU (see sub clause 6.1.2). If an RLC entity receives RLC SDUs
from upper layer, it receives them through a single SAP between RLC and
upper layer, and after forming RLC data PDUs from the received RLC SDUs,
the RLC entity delivers the RLC data PDUs to lower layer through a
single logical channel. If an RLC entity receives RLC data PDUs from
lower layer, it receives them through a single logical channel, and
after forming RLC SDUs from the received RLC data PDUs, the RLC entity
delivers the RLC SDUs to upper layer through a single SAP between RLC
and upper layer. If an RLC entity delivers/receives RLC control PDUs
to/from lower layer, it delivers/receives them through the same logical
channel it delivers/receives the RLC data PDUs through.

An RLC entity can be configured to perform data transfer in one of the
following three modes: Transparent Mode (TM), Unacknowledged Mode (UM)
or Acknowledged Mode (AM). Consequently, an RLC entity is categorized as
a TM RLC entity, an UM RLC entity or an AM RLC entity depending on the
mode of data transfer that the RLC entity is configured to provide.

A TM RLC entity is configured either as a transmitting TM RLC entity or
a receiving TM RLC entity. The transmitting TM RLC entity receives RLC
SDUs from upper layer and sends RLC PDUs to its peer receiving TM RLC
entity via lower layers. The receiving TM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs
to upper layer and receives RLC PDUs from its peer transmitting TM RLC
entity via lower layers.

An UM RLC entity is configured either as a transmitting UM RLC entity or
a receiving UM RLC entity. The transmitting UM RLC entity receives RLC
SDUs from upper layer and sends RLC PDUs to its peer receiving UM RLC
entity via lower layers. The receiving UM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs
to upper layer and receives RLC PDUs from its peer transmitting UM RLC
entity via lower layers.

An AM RLC entity consists of a transmitting side and a receiving side.
The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from upper
layer and sends RLC PDUs to its peer AM RLC entity via lower layers. The
receiving side of an AM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs to upper layer and
receives RLC PDUs from its peer AM RLC entity via lower layers.

Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates the overview model of the RLC sub layer.

Figure 4.2.1-1: Overview model of the RLC sub layer

The following applies to all RLC entity types (i.e. TM, UM and AM RLC
entity):

\- RLC SDUs of variable sizes which are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8
bits) are supported;

\- RLC PDUs are formed only when a transmission opportunity has been
notified by lower layer (i.e. by MAC) and are then delivered to lower
layer.

Description of different RLC entity types are provided below.

#### 4.2.1.1 TM RLC entity

##### 4.2.1.1.1 General

A TM RLC entity can be configured to deliver/receive RLC PDUs through
the following logical channels:

\- BCCH, BR-BCCH, DL/UL CCCH, PCCH and SBCCH.

Figure 4.2.1.1.1-1: Model of two transparent mode peer entities

A TM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC data PDU:

\- TMD PDU.

##### 4.2.1.1.2 Transmitting TM RLC entity

When a transmitting TM RLC entity forms TMD PDUs from RLC SDUs, it
shall:

\- not segment nor concatenate the RLC SDUs;

\- not include any RLC headers in the TMD PDUs.

##### 4.2.1.1.3 Receiving TM RLC entity

When a receiving TM RLC entity receives TMD PDUs, it shall:

\- deliver the TMD PDUs (which are just RLC SDUs) to upper layer.

#### 4.2.1.2 UM RLC entity

##### 4.2.1.2.1 General

An UM RLC entity can be configured to deliver/receive RLC PDUs through
the following logical channels:

\- DL/UL DTCH, MCCH, MTCH, SC-MCCH, SC-MTCH or STCH.

Figure 4.2.1.2.1-1: Model of two unacknowledged mode peer entities

An UM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC data PDU:

\- UMD PDU.

NOTE: HARQ reordering is not applicable for MCCH, MTCH, SC-MCCH, SC-MTCH
or STCH reception for sidelink communication.

##### 4.2.1.2.2 Transmitting UM RLC entity

When a transmitting UM RLC entity forms UMD PDUs from RLC SDUs, it
shall:

\- segment and/or concatenate the RLC SDUs so that the UMD PDUs fit
within the total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer at the
particular transmission opportunity notified by lower layer;

\- include relevant RLC headers in the UMD PDU.

##### 4.2.1.2.3 Receiving UM RLC entity

When a receiving UM RLC entity receives UMD PDUs, it shall:

\- detect whether or not the UMD PDUs have been received in duplication,
and discard duplicated UMD PDUs;

\- reorder the UMD PDUs if they are received out of sequence, if
*rlc-OutOfOrderDelivery* is not configured;

\- detect the loss of UMD PDUs at lower layers and avoid excessive
reordering delays;

\- reassemble RLC SDUs from the reordered UMD PDUs (not accounting for
RLC PDUs for which losses have been detected) and deliver the RLC SDUs
to upper layer in ascending order of the RLC SN;

\- discard received UMD PDUs that cannot be re-assembled into a RLC SDU
due to loss at lower layers of an UMD PDU which belonged to the
particular RLC SDU.

At the time of RLC re-establishment, the receiving UM RLC entity shall:

\- if possible, reassemble RLC SDUs from the UMD PDUs that are received
out of sequence and deliver them to upper layer;

\- discard any remaining UMD PDUs that could not be reassembled into RLC
SDUs;

\- initialize relevant state variables and stop relevant timers.

#### 4.2.1.3 AM RLC entity

##### 4.2.1.3.1 General

An AM RLC entity can be configured to deliver/receive RLC PDUs through
the following logical channels:

\- DL/UL DCCH or DL/UL DTCH.

Figure 4.2.1.3.1-1: Model of an acknowledged mode enttiy

An AM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC data PDUs:

\- AMD PDU;

\- AMD PDU segment.

An AM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC control PDU:

\- STATUS PDU.

##### 4.2.1.3.2 Transmitting side

When the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity forms AMD PDUs from RLC
SDUs, it shall:

\- segment and/or concatenate the RLC SDUs so that the AMD PDUs fit
within the total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer at the
particular transmission opportunity notified by lower layer.

The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity supports retransmission of RLC
data PDUs (ARQ):

\- if the RLC data PDU to be retransmitted does not fit within the total
size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer at the particular
transmission opportunity notified by lower layer, the AM RLC entity can
re-segment the RLC data PDU into AMD PDU segments;

\- the number of re-segmentation is not limited.

When the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity forms AMD PDUs from RLC
SDUs received from upper layer or AMD PDU segments from RLC data PDUs to
be retransmitted, it shall:

\- include relevant RLC headers in the RLC data PDU.

##### 4.2.1.3.3 Receiving side

When the receiving side of an AM RLC entity receives RLC data PDUs, it
shall:

\- detect whether or not the RLC data PDUs have been received in
duplication, and discard duplicated RLC data PDUs;

\- reorder the RLC data PDUs if they are received out of sequence and if
*rlc-OutOfOrderDelivery* is not configured;

\- detect the loss of RLC data PDUs at lower layers and request
retransmissions to its peer AM RLC entity;

\- if *rlc-OutOfOrderDelivery* is not configured:

\- reassemble RLC SDUs from the reordered RLC data PDUs and deliver the
RLC SDUs to upper layer in sequence.

\- else:

\- reassemble RLC SDUs from the RLC data PDUs and deliver the RLC SDUs
to upper layer.

At the time of RLC re-establishment, the receiving side of an AM RLC
entity shall:

\- if possible, reassemble RLC SDUs from the RLC data PDUs that are
received out of sequence and deliver them to upper layer;

\- discard any remaining RLC data PDUs that could not be reassembled
into RLC SDUs;

\- initialize relevant state variables and stop relevant timers.

4.3 Services
------------

### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers

The following services are provided by RLC to upper layer:

\- TM data transfer;

\- UM data transfer;

\- AM data transfer, including indication of successful delivery of
upper layers PDUs.

### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers

The following services are expected by RLC from lower layer (i.e. MAC):

\- data transfer;

\- notification of a transmission opportunity, together with the total
size of the RLC PDU(s) to be transmitted in the transmission
opportunity.

4.4 Functions
-------------

The following functions are supported by the RLC sub layer:

\- transfer of upper layer PDUs;

\- error correction through ARQ (only for AM data transfer);

\- concatenation, segmentation and reassembly of RLC SDUs (only for UM
and AM data transfer);

\- re-segmentation of RLC data PDUs (only for AM data transfer);

\- reordering of RLC **data PDUs** (only for UM and AM data transfer);

\- duplicate detection (only for UM and AM data transfer);

\- RLC SDU discard (only for UM and AM data transfer);

\- RLC re-establishment;

\- Protocol error detection (only for AM data transfer).

4.5 Data available for transmission
-----------------------------------

For the purpose of MAC buffer status reporting, the UE shall consider
the following as data available for transmission in the RLC layer:

\- RLC SDUs, or segments thereof, that have not yet been included in an
RLC data PDU;

\- RLC data PDUs, or portions thereof, that are pending for
retransmission (RLC AM).

In addition, if a STATUS PDU has been triggered and *t-StatusProhibit*
is not running or has expired, the UE shall estimate the size of the
STATUS PDU that will be transmitted in the next transmission
opportunity, and consider this as data available for transmission in the
RLC layer.

5 Procedures
============

5.1 Data transfer procedures
----------------------------

### 5.1.1 TM data transfer

#### 5.1.1.1 Transmit operations

##### 5.1.1.1.1 General

When submitting a new TMD PDU to lower layer, the transmitting TM RLC
entity shall:

\- submit a RLC SDU without any modification to lower layer.

#### 5.1.1.2 Receive operations

##### 5.1.1.2.1 General

**When receiving a new TMD PDU from lower layer, the receiving TM RLC
entity shall:**

**- deliver the TMD PDU without any modification to upper layer.**

### 5.1.2 UM data transfer

#### 5.1.2.1 Transmit operations

##### 5.1.2.1.1 General

**When delivering a new UMD PDU to lower layer, the transmitting UM RLC
entity shall:**

\- set the SN of the UMD PDU to VT(US), and then increment VT(US) by
one.

#### 5.1.2.2 Receive operations

##### 5.1.2.2.1 General

**The receiving UM RLC entity shall maintain a reordering window
according to state variable VR(UH) as follows:**

\- a SN falls within the reordering window if (VR(UH) --
UM\_Window\_Size) \<= SN \< VR(UH);

\- a SN falls outside of the reordering window otherwise.

**When receiving an UMD PDU from lower layer, the receiving UM RLC
entity shall:**

\- either discard the received UMD PDU or place it in the reception
buffer (see sub clause 5.1.2.2.2);

\- if the received UMD PDU was placed in the reception buffer:

\- update state variables, reassemble and deliver RLC SDUs to upper
layer and start/stop *t-Reordering* as needed (see sub clause
5.1.2.2.3);

**When *t-Reordering* expires, the receiving UM RLC entity shall:**

\- update state variables, reassemble and deliver RLC SDUs to upper
layer and start *t-Reordering* as needed (see sub clause 5.1.2.2.4).

For NB-IoT:

\- The receiving side of an RLC entity shall behave such that the timer
value of *t-Reordering* is 0, if not configured.

##### 5.1.2.2.2 Actions when an UMD PDU is received from lower layer

**When an UMD PDU with SN = x is received from lower layer, the
receiving UM RLC entity shall:**

\- if VR(UR) \< x \< VR(UH) and the UMD PDU with SN = x has been
received before; or

**- if** (VR(UH) -- UM\_Window\_Size) \<= x \< VR(UR):

\- discard the received UMD PDU;

\- else:

\- place the received UMD PDU in the reception buffer**.**

##### 5.1.2.2.3 Actions when an UMD PDU is placed in the reception buffer

**When an UMD PDU with SN = x is placed in the reception buffer, the
receiving UM RLC entity shall:**

\- if *rlc-OutOfOrderDelivery* is configured:

\- if all byte segments of the UMD PDU are received:

\- reassemble the RLC SDU using the byte segments of the UMD PDU, remove
RLC headers when doing so and deliver the reassembled RLC SDU to upper
layer if not delivered before;

\- if x falls outside of the reordering window:

\- update VR(UH) to x + 1;

\- reassemble RLC SDUs from any UMD PDUs with SN that falls outside of
the reordering window, remove RLC headers when doing so and deliver the
reassembled RLC SDUs to upper layer in ascending order of the RLC SN if
not delivered before;

\- if VR(UR) falls outside of the reordering window:

\- set VR(UR) to (VR(UH) -- UM\_Window\_Size);

\- if an UMD PDU with SN = VR(UR) has already been received:

\- update VR(UR) to the SN of the first UMD PDU with SN \> current
VR(UR) that has not been received;

\- reassemble RLC SDUs from any UMD PDUs with SN \< updated VR(UR),
remove RLC headers when doing so and deliver the reassembled RLC SDUs to
upper layer in ascending order of the RLC SN if not delivered before;

\- if *t-Reordering* is running:

\- if VR(UX) \<= VR(UR); or

\- if VR(UX) falls outside of the reordering window and VR(UX) is not
equal to VR(UH)::

\- stop and reset *t-Reordering*;

\- if *t-Reordering* is not running (includes the case when
*t-Reordering* is stopped due to actions above):

\- if VR(UH) \> VR(UR):

\- start *t-Reordering*;

\- set VR(UX) to VR(UH).

##### 5.1.2.2.4 Actions when *t-Reordering* expires

**When *t-Reordering* expires, the receiving UM RLC entity shall:**

\- update VR(UR) to the SN of the first UMD PDU with SN \>= VR(UX) that
has not been received;

\- reassemble RLC SDUs from any UMD PDUs with SN \< updated VR(UR),
remove RLC headers when doing so and deliver the reassembled RLC SDUs to
upper layer in ascending order of the RLC SN if not delivered before;

\- if VR(UH) \> VR(UR):

\- start *t-Reordering*;

\- set VR(UX) to VR(UH).

### 5.1.3 AM data transfer

#### 5.1.3.1 Transmit operations

##### 5.1.3.1.1 General

**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall prioritize
transmission of RLC control PDUs over RLC data PDUs. The transmitting
side of an AM RLC entity shall prioritize retransmission of RLC data
PDUs over transmission of new AMD PDUs.**

**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall maintain a
transmitting window according to state variables VT(A) and VT(MS) as
follows:**

\- a SN falls within the transmitting window if VT(A) \<= SN \< VT(MS);

\- a SN falls outside of the transmitting window otherwise.

**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall not deliver to lower
layer any RLC data PDU whose SN falls outside of the transmitting
window.**

**When delivering a new AMD PDU to lower layer, the transmitting side of
an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- set the SN of the AMD PDU to VT(S), and then increment VT(S) by one.

**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity can receive a positive
acknowledgement (confirmation of successful reception by its peer AM RLC
entity) for a RLC data PDU by the following:**

\- STATUS PDU from its peer AM RLC entity.

**When receiving a positive acknowledgement for an AMD PDU with SN =
VT(A), the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- set VT(A) equal to the SN of the AMD PDU with the smallest SN, whose
SN falls within the range VT(A) \<= SN \<= VT(S) and for which a
positive acknowledgment has not been received yet.

\- if positive acknowledgements have been received for all AMD PDUs
associated with a transmitted RLC SDU:

\- send an indication to the upper layers of successful delivery of the
RLC SDU.

#### 5.1.3.2 Receive operations

##### 5.1.3.2.1 General

**The receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall maintain a receiving
window according to state variables VR(R) and VR(MR) as follows:**

\- a SN falls within the receiving window if VR(R) \<= SN \< VR(MR);

\- a SN falls outside of the receiving window otherwise.

**When receiving a RLC data PDU from lower layer, the receiving side of
an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- either discard the received RLC data PDU or place it in the reception
buffer (see sub clause 5.1.3.2.2);

\- if the received RLC data PDU was placed in the reception buffer:

\- update state variables, reassemble and deliver RLC SDUs to upper
layer and start/stop *t-Reordering* as needed (see sub clause
5.1.3.2.3).

**When *t-Reordering* expires, the receiving side of an AM RLC entity
shall:**

\- update state variables and start *t-Reordering* as needed (see sub
clause 5.1.3.2.4).

For NB-IoT;

\- The receiving side of an RLC entity shall behave such that the timer
values of ***t-Reordering*** and ***t-StatusProhibit*** are 0, if not
configured.

##### 5.1.3.2.2 Actions when a RLC data PDU is received from lower layer

**When a RLC data PDU is received from lower layer, where the RLC data
PDU contains byte segment numbers y to z of an AMD PDU with SN = x, the
receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- if x falls outside of the receiving window; or

\- if byte segment numbers y to z of the AMD PDU with SN = x have been
received before:

\- discard the received RLC data PDU;

\- else:

\- place the received RLC data PDU in the reception buffer;

\- if some byte segments of the AMD PDU contained in the RLC data PDU
have been received before:

\- discard the duplicate byte segments.

##### 5.1.3.2.3 Actions when a RLC data PDU is placed in the reception buffer

**When a RLC data PDU with SN = x is placed in the reception buffer, the
receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- if *rlc-OutOfOrderDelivery* is configured:

\- if all byte segments of the AMD PDU are received:

\- reassemble the RLC SDU using the byte segments of the AMD PDU, remove
RLC headers when doing so and deliver the reassembled RLC SDU to upper
layer if not delivered before;

\- if x \>= VR(H)

\- update VR(H) to x+ 1;

\- if all byte segments of the AMD PDU with SN = VR(MS) are received:

\- update VR(MS) to the SN of the first AMD PDU with SN \> current
VR(MS) for which not all byte segments have been received;

\- if x = VR(R):

\- if all byte segments of the AMD PDU with SN = VR(R) are received:

\- update VR(R) to the SN of the first AMD PDU with SN \> current VR(R)
for which not all byte segments have been received;

\- update VR(MR) to the updated VR(R) + AM\_Window\_Size;

\- reassemble RLC SDUs from any byte segments of AMD PDUs with SN that
falls outside of the receiving window and in-sequence byte segments of
the AMD PDU with SN = VR(R), remove RLC headers when doing so and
deliver the reassembled RLC SDUs to upper layer in sequence if not
delivered before;

\- if *t-Reordering* is running:

\- if VR(X) = VR(R); or

\- if VR(X) falls outside of the receiving window and VR(X) is not equal
to VR(MR):

\- stop and reset *t-Reordering*;

\- if *t-Reordering* is not running (includes the case *t-Reordering* is
stopped due to actions above):

\- if VR (H) \> VR(R):

\- start *t-Reordering*;

\- set VR(X) to VR(H).

##### 5.1.3.2.4 Actions when *t-Reordering* expires

**When *t-Reordering* expires, the receiving side of an AM RLC entity
shall:**

\- update VR(MS) to the SN of the first AMD PDU with SN \>= VR(X) for
which not all byte segments have been received;

\- if VR(H) \> VR(MS):

\- start *t-Reordering*;

\- set VR(X) to VR(H).

5.2 ARQ procedures
------------------

**ARQ procedures are only performed by an AM RLC entity.**

### 5.2.1 Retransmission

**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity can receive a negative
acknowledgement (notification of reception failure by its peer AM RLC
entity) for an AMD PDU or a portion of an AMD PDU by the following:**

\- STATUS PDU from its peer AM RLC entity.

**When receiving a negative acknowledgement for an AMD PDU or a portion
of an AMD PDU by a STATUS PDU from its peer AM RLC entity, the
transmitting side of the AM RLC entity shall:**

\- if the SN of the corresponding AMD PDU falls within the range VT(A)
\<= SN \< VT(S):

\- consider the AMD PDU or the portion of the AMD PDU for which a
negative acknowledgement was received for retransmission.

**When an AMD PDU or a portion of an AMD PDU is considered for
retransmission, the transmitting side of the AM RLC entity shall:**

\- if the AMD PDU is considered for retransmission for the first time:

\- set the RETX\_COUNT associated with the AMD PDU to zero;

\- else, if it (the AMD PDU or the portion of the AMD PDU that is
considered for retransmission) is not pending for retransmission
already, or a portion of it is not pending for retransmission already:

\- increment the RETX\_COUNT;

\- if RETX\_COUNT = *maxRetxThreshold*:

\- indicate to upper layers that max retransmission has been reached.

**When retransmitting an AMD PDU, the transmitting side of an AM RLC
entity shall:**

\- if the AMD PDU can entirely fit within the total size of RLC PDU(s)
indicated by lower layer at the particular transmission opportunity:

\- deliver the AMD PDU as it is except for the P field (the P field
should be set according to sub clause 5.2.2) to lower layer;

\- otherwise:

\- segment the AMD PDU, form a new AMD PDU segment which will fit within
the total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer at the particular
transmission opportunity and deliver the new AMD PDU segment to lower
layer.

**When retransmitting a portion of an AMD PDU, the transmitting side of
an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- segment the portion of the AMD PDU as necessary, form a new AMD PDU
segment which will fit within the total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by
lower layer at the particular transmission opportunity and deliver the
new AMD PDU segment to lower layer.

**When forming a new AMD PDU segment, the transmitting side of an AM RLC
entity shall:**

\- only map the Data field of the original AMD PDU to the Data field of
the new AMD PDU segment;

\- set the header of the new AMD PDU segment in accordance with the
description in sub clause 6.;

\- set the P field according to sub clause 5.2.2.

### 5.2.2 Polling

**An AM RLC entity can poll its peer AM RLC entity in order to trigger
STATUS reporting at the peer AM RLC entity.**

#### 5.2.2.1 Transmission of a AMD PDU or AMD PDU segment

**Upon assembly of a new AMD PDU, the transmitting side of an AM RLC
entity except for NB-IoT shall:**

\- increment PDU\_WITHOUT\_POLL by one;

\- increment BYTE\_WITHOUT\_POLL by every new byte of Data field element
that it maps to the Data field of the RLC data PDU;

\- if PDU\_WITHOUT\_POLL \>= *pollPDU*; or

\- if BYTE\_WITHOUT\_POLL \>= *pollByte*;

\- include a poll in the RLC data PDU as described below.

**Upon assembly of an AMD PDU or AMD PDU segment, the transmitting side
of an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- if both the transmission buffer and the retransmission buffer becomes
empty (excluding transmitted RLC data PDU awaiting for acknowledgements)
after the transmission of the RLC data PDU; or

\- if no new RLC data PDU can be transmitted after the transmission of
the RLC data PDU (e.g. due to window stalling);

\- include a poll in the RLC data PDU as described below.

NOTE: E mpty RLC buffer (excluding transmitted RLC data PDU awaiting for
acknowledgements) should not lead to unnecessary polling when data
awaits in the upper layer. Details are left up to UE implementation.

**To include a poll in a RLC data PDU, the transmitting side of an AM
RLC entity shall:**

\- set the P field of the RLC data PDU to \"1\";

\- set PDU\_WITHOUT\_POLL to 0, except for NB-IoT;

\- set BYTE\_WITHOUT\_POLL to 0, except for NB-IoT;

**After delivering a RLC data PDU including a poll to lower layer and
after incrementing of VT(S) if necessary, the transmitting side of an AM
RLC entity shall:**

\- set POLL\_SN to VT(S) -- 1;

\- if *t-PollRetransmit* is not running:

\- start *t-PollRetransmit*;

\- else:

\- restart *t-PollRetransmit*;

#### 5.2.2.2 Reception of a STATUS report

**Upon reception of a STATUS report from the receiving RLC AM entity the
transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- if the STATUS report comprises a positive or negative acknowledgement
for the RLC data PDU with sequence number equal to POLL\_SN:

\- if *t-PollRetransmit* is running:

\- stop and reset *t-PollRetransmit*.

#### 5.2.2.3 Expiry of *t-PollRetransmit*

**Upon expiry of *t-PollRetransmit*, the transmitting side of an AM RLC
entity shall:**

\- if both the transmission buffer and the retransmission buffer are
empty (excluding transmitted RLC data PDU awaiting for
acknowledgements); or

\- if no new RLC data PDU can be transmitted (e.g. due to window
stalling):

\- consider the AMD PDU with SN = VT(S) -- 1 for retransmission; or

\- consider any AMD PDU which has not been positively acknowledged for
retransmission;

\- include a poll in a RLC data PDU as described in clause 5.2.2.1.

### 5.2.3 Status reporting

**An AM RLC entity sends STATUS PDUs to its peer AM RLC entity in order
to provide positive and/or negative acknowledgements of RLC PDUs (or
portions of them).**

**Except for NB-IoT, RRC configures whether or not the status prohibit
function is to be used for an AM RLC entity. For NB-IoT, RRC configures
whether or not the status reporting due to** detection of reception
failure of an RLC data PDU **is to be used for an AM RLC entity.**

**Triggers to initiate STATUS reporting include:**

\- Polling from its peer AM RLC entity:

\- When a RLC data PDU with SN = x and the P field set to \"1\" is
received from lower layer, the receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall:

\- if the PDU is to be discarded as specified in clause 5.1.3.2.2; or

\- if x \< VR(MS) or x \>= VR(MR):

\- trigger a STATUS report;

\- else:

\- delay triggering the STATUS report until x \< VR(MS) or x \>= VR(MR).

NOTE 1: This ensures that the RLC Status report is transmitted after
HARQ reordering.

\- Detection of reception failure of an RLC data PDU, except for an
NB-IoT UE not configured with *enableStatusReportSN-Gap*:

\- The receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall trigger a STATUS report
when *t-Reordering* expires.

NOTE 2: The expiry of *t-Reordering* triggers both VR(MS) to be updated
and a STATUS report to be triggered, but the STATUS report shall be
triggered after VR(MS) is updated.

**When STATUS reporting has been triggered, the receiving side of an AM
RLC entity shall:**

\- if *t-StatusProhibit* is not running:

\- at the first transmission opportunity indicated by lower layer,
construct a STATUS PDU and deliver it to lower layer;

\- else:

\- at the first transmission opportunity indicated by lower layer after
*t-StatusProhibit* expires, construct a single STATUS PDU even if status
reporting was triggered several times while *t-StatusProhibit* was
running and deliver it to lower layer;

**When a STATUS PDU has been delivered to lower layer, the receiving
side of an AM RLC entity shall:**

\- start *t-StatusProhibit*.

**When constructing a STATUS PDU, the AM RLC entity shall:**

\- for the AMD PDUs with SN such that VR(R) \<= SN \< VR(MS) that has
not been completely received yet, in increasing SN order of PDUs and
increasing byte segment order within PDUs, starting with SN = VR(R) up
to the point where the resulting STATUS PDU still fits to the total size
of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer:

\- for an AMD PDU for which no byte segments have been received yet::

\- include in the STATUS PDU a NACK\_SN which is set to the SN of the
AMD PDU;

\- for a continuous sequence of byte segments of a partly received AMD
PDU that have not been received yet:

\- include in the STATUS PDU a set of NACK\_SN, SOstart and SOend

\- set the ACK\_SN to the SN of the next not received RLC Data PDU which
is not indicated as missing in the resulting STATUS PDU.

5.3 SDU discard procedures
--------------------------

**When indicated from upper layer (i.e. PDCP) to discard a particular
RLC SDU, the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity or the transmitting
UM RLC entity shall discard the indicated RLC SDU if no segment of the
RLC SDU has been mapped to a RLC data PDU yet.**

5.4 Re-establishment procedure
------------------------------

**RLC re-establishment is performed upon request by RRC, and the
function is applicable for AM, UM and TM RLC entities.**

**When RRC indicates that an RLC entity should be re-established, the
RLC entity shall:**

\- if it is a transmitting TM RLC entity:

\- discard all RLC SDUs;

\- if it is a receiving UM RLC entity:

\- when possible, reassemble RLC SDUs from UMD PDUs with SN \< VR(UH),
remove RLC headers when doing so and deliver all reassembled RLC SDUs to
upper layer **in** ascending order of the RLC SN**,** if not delivered
before;

\- discard all remaining UMD PDUs;

\- if it is a transmitting UM RLC entity:

\- discard all RLC SDUs;

\- if it is an AM RLC entity:

\- when possible, reassemble RLC SDUs from any byte segments of AMD PDUs
with SN \< VR(MR) in the receiving side, remove RLC headers when doing
so and deliver all reassembled RLC SDUs to upper layer **in** ascending
order of the RLC SN, if not delivered before;

\- discard the remaining AMD PDUs and byte segments of AMD PDUs in the
receiving side;

\- discard all RLC SDUs and AMD PDUs in the transmitting side;

\- discard all RLC control PDUs.

\- stop and reset all timers;

\- reset all state variables to their initial values.

5.5 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
---------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.5.1 Reception of PDU with reserved or invalid values

When an RLC entity receives an RLC PDU that contains reserved or invalid
values, the RLC entity shall:

\- discard the received PDU.

6 Protocol data units, formats and parameters
=============================================

6.1 Protocol data units
-----------------------

RLC PDUs can be categorized into RLC data PDUs and RLC control PDUs. RLC
data PDUs in sub clause 6.1.1 are used by TM, UM and AM RLC entities to
transfer upper layer PDUs (i.e. RLC SDUs). RLC control PDUs in sub
clause 6.1.2 are used by AM RLC entity to perform ARQ procedures.

### 6.1.1 RLC data PDU

a\) TMD PDU

TMD PDU is used to transfer upper layer PDUs by a TM RLC entity.

b\) UMD PDU

UMD PDU is used to transfer upper layer PDUs by an UM RLC entity.

c\) AMD PDU

AMD PDU is used to transfer upper layer PDUs by an AM RLC entity. It is
used when the AM RLC entity transmits (part of) the RLC SDU for the
first time, or when the AM RLC entity retransmits an AMD PDU without
having to perform re-segmentation.

d\) AMD PDU segment

AMD PDU segment is used to transfer upper layer PDUs by an AM RLC
entity. It is used when the AM RLC entity needs to retransmit a portion
of an AMD PDU.

### 6.1.2 RLC control PDU

a\) STATUS PDU

STATUS PDU is used by the receiving side of an AM RLC entity to inform
the peer AM RLC entity about RLC data PDUs that are received
successfully, and RLC data PDUs that are detected to be lost by the
receiving side of an AM RLC entity.

6.2 Formats and parameters
--------------------------

The formats of RLC PDUs are described in sub clause 6.2.1 and their
parameters are described in sub clause 6.2.2.

### 6.2.1 Formats

#### 6.2.1.1 General

RLC PDU is a bit string. In the figures in sub clause 6.2.1.2 to
6.2.1.6, bit strings are represented by tables in which the first and
most significant bit is the left most bit of the first line of the
table, the last and least significant bit is the rightmost bit of the
last line of the table, and more generally the bit string is to be read
from left to right and then in the reading order of the lines.

RLC SDUs are bit strings that are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits)
in length. An RLC SDU is included into an RLC PDU from first bit onward.

#### 6.2.1.2 TMD PDU

TMD PDU consists only of a Data field and does not consist of any RLC
headers.

Figure 6.2.1.2-1: TMD PDU

#### 6.2.1.3 UMD PDU

UMD PDU consists of a Data field and an UMD PDU header.

UMD PDU header consists of a fixed part (fields that are present for
every UMD PDU) and an extension part (fields that are present for an UMD
PDU when necessary). The fixed part of the UMD PDU header itself is byte
aligned and consists of a FI, an E and a SN. The extension part of the
UMD PDU header itself is byte aligned and consists of E(s) and LI(s).

Except for NB-IoT, an UM RLC entity is configured by RRC to use either a
5 bit SN or a 10 bit SN. For NB-IoT, an UM RLC entity uses a 5 bit SN.
When the 5 bit SN is used, the length of the fixed part of the UMD PDU
header is one byte. When the 10 bit SN is used, the fixed part of the
UMD PDU header is identical to the fixed part of the AMD PDU header,
except for D/C, RF and P fields all being replaced with R1 fields. The
extension part of the UMD PDU header is identical to the extension part
of the AMD PDU header (regardless of the configured SN size).

An UMD PDU header consists of an extension part only when more than one
Data field elements are present in the UMD PDU, in which case an E and a
LI are present for every Data field element except the last.
Furthermore, when an UMD PDU header consists of an odd number of LI(s),
four padding bits follow after the last LI.

Figure 6.2.1.3-1: UMD PDU with 5 bit SN (No LI)

Figure 6.2.1.3-2: UMD PDU with 10 bit SN (No LI)

Figure 6.2.1.3-3: UMD PDU with 5 bit SN (Odd number of LIs, i.e. K = 1,
3, 5, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.3-4: UMD PDU with 5 bit SN (Even number of LIs, i.e. K = 2,
4, 6, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.3-5: UMD PDU with 10 bit SN (Odd number of LIs, i.e. K = 1,
3, 5, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.3-6: UMD PDU with 10 bit SN (Even number of LIs, i.e. K =
2, 4, 6, ...)

#### 6.2.1.4 AMD PDU

AMD PDU consists of a Data field and an AMD PDU header.

AMD PDU header consists of a fixed part (fields that are present for
every AMD PDU) and an extension part (fields that are present for an AMD
PDU when necessary). The fixed part of the AMD PDU header itself is byte
aligned and consists of a D/C, a RF, a P, a FI, an E and a SN. The
extension part of the AMD PDU header itself is byte aligned and consists
of E(s) and LI(s).

The transmitting side and the receiving side of an AM RLC entity are
configured by RRC to use either a 10 bit SN or a 16 bit SN. The length
of the fixed part of the AMD PDU header is two and three bytes
respectively. The default values for SN field length used by an AM RLC
entity is 10 bits.

An AMD PDU header consists of an extension part only when more than one
Data field elements are present in the AMD PDU, in which case an E and a
LI are present for every Data field element except the last.
Furthermore, when an AMD PDU header consists of an odd number of LI(s)
and the length of the LI field is 11 bits, four padding bits follow
after the last LI. The default value for LI field length used by an AM
RLC entity is 11 bits.

Figure 6.2.1.4-1: AMD PDU with 10 bit SN (length of LI field is 11 bits)
(No LI)

Figure 6.2.1.4-1a: AMD PDU with 16 bit SN (length of LI field is 11
bits) (No LI)

Figure 6.2.1.4-2: AMD PDU with 10 bit SN (length of LI field is 11 bits)
(Odd number of LIs, i.e. K = 1, 3, 5, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.4-2a: AMD PDU with 16 bit SN (length of LI field is 11
bits) (Odd number of LIs, i.e. K = 1, 3, 5, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.4-3: AMD PDU with 10 bit SN (length of LI field is 11 bits)
(Even number of LIs, i.e. K = 2, 4, 6, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.4-3a: AMD PDU with 16 bit SN (length of LI field is 11
bits) (Even number of LIs, i.e. K = 2, 4, 6, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.4-4: AMD PDU with 10 bit SN (length of LI field is 15 bits)

Figure 6.2.1.4-4a: AMD PDU with 16 bit SN (length of LI field is 15
bits)

#### 6.2.1.5 AMD PDU segment

AMD PDU segment consists of a Data field and an AMD PDU segment header.

AMD PDU segment header consists of a fixed part (fields that are present
for every AMD PDU segment) and an extension part (fields that are
present for an AMD PDU segment when necessary). The fixed part of the
AMD PDU segment header itself is byte aligned and consists of a D/C, a
RF, a P, a FI, an E, a SN, a LSF and a SO. The extension part of the AMD
PDU segment header itself is byte aligned and consists of E(s) and
LI(s).

The transmitting side and the receiving side of an AM RLC entity are
configured by RRC to use either a 10 bit SN or a 16 bit SN. When a 10
bit SN is used, the SO field is 15 bits, and when a 16 bit SN is used,
the SO field is 16 bits. The length of the fixed part of the AMD PDU
segment header is four and five bytes respectively. The default values
for SN field length and SO field length used by an AM RLC entity are 10
bits and 15 bits, respectively.

An AMD PDU segment header consists of an extension part only when more
than one Data field elements are present in the AMD PDU segment, in
which case an E and a LI are present for every Data field element except
the last. Furthermore, when an AMD PDU segment header consists of an odd
number of LI(s) and the length of the LI field is 11 bits, four padding
bits follow after the last LI. The default value for LI field length
used by an AM RLC entity is 11 bits.

Figure 6.2.1.5-1: AMD PDU segment with 10 bit SN (No LI)

Figure 6.2.1.5-1a: AMD PDU segment with 16 bit SN and with 16 bit SO (No
LI)

Figure 6.2.1.5-2: AMD PDU segment with 10 bit SN (length of LI field is
11 bits) (Odd number of LIs, i.e. K = 1, 3, 5, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.5-2a: AMD PDU segment with 16 bit SN and with 16 bit SO
(length of LI field is 11 bits) (Odd number of LIs, i.e. K = 1, 3, 5,
...)

Figure 6.2.1.5-3: AMD PDU segment with 10 bit SN (length of LI field is
11 bits) (Even number of LIs, i.e. K = 2, 4, 6, ...)

Figure 6.2.1.5-3a: AMD PDU segment with 16 bit SN and with 16 bit SO
(length of LI field is 11 bits) (Even number of LIs, i.e. K = 2, 4, 6,
...)

Figure 6.2.1.5-4: AMD PDU segment with 10 bit SN (length of LI field is
15 bits)

Figure 6.2.1.5-4a: AMD PDU segment with 16 bit SN and with 16 bit SO
(length of LI field is 15 bits)

#### 6.2.1.6 STATUS PDU

STATUS PDU consists of a STATUS PDU payload and a RLC control PDU
header.

RLC control PDU header consists of a D/C and a CPT field.

The STATUS PDU payload starts from the first bit following the RLC
control PDU header, and it consists of one ACK\_SN and one E1, zero or
more sets of a NACK\_SN, an E1 and an E2, and possibly a set of a
SOstart and a SOend for each NACK\_SN. When necessary one to seven
padding bits are included in the end of the STATUS PDU to achieve octet
alignment.

Figure 6.2.1.6-1: STATUS PDU with 10 bit SN

Figure 6.2.1.6-2: STATUS PDU with 16 bit SN and with 16 bit SOstart and
SOend fields

### 6.2.2 Parameters

#### 6.2.2.1 General

In the definition of each field in sub clauses 6.2.2.2 to 6.2.2.19, the
bits in the parameters are represented in which the first and most
significant bit is the left most bit and the last and least significant
bit is the rightmost bit. Unless mentioned otherwise, integers are
encoded in standard binary encoding for unsigned integers.

#### 6.2.2.2 Data field

Data field elements are mapped to the Data field in the order which they
arrive to the RLC entity at the transmitter.

For TMD PDU, UMD PDU and AMD PDU:

\- The granularity of the Data field size is one byte;

\- The maximum Data field size is the maximum TB size minus the sum of
minimum MAC PDU header size and minimum RLC PDU header size.

For TMD PDU:

\- Only one RLC SDU can be mapped to the Data field of one TMD PDU.

For UMD PDU, AMD PDU and AMD PDU segment:

\- Either of the following can be mapped to the Data field of one UMD
PDU, AMD PDU or AMD PDU segment:

\- Zero RLC SDU segments and one or more RLC SDUs;

\- One or two RLC SDU segments and zero or more RLC SDUs;

\- RLC SDU segments are either mapped to the beginning or the end of the
Data field;

\- A RLC SDU or RLC SDU segment larger than 2047 octets for 11 bits LI
can only be mapped to the end of the Data field;

\- When there are two RLC SDU segments, they belong to different RLC
SDUs.

#### 6.2.2.3 Sequence Number (SN) field

Length: 10 bits or 16 bits (configurable) for AMD PDU and AMD PDU
segments. 5 bits or 10 bits (configurable) for UMD PDU.

The SN field indicates the sequence number of the corresponding UMD or
AMD PDU. For an AMD PDU segment, the SN field indicates the sequence
number of the original AMD PDU from which the AMD PDU segment was
constructed from. The sequence number is incremented by one for every
UMD or AMD PDU.

#### 6.2.2.4 Extension bit (E) field

Length: 1 bit.

The E field indicates whether Data field follows or a set of E field and
LI field follows. The interpretation of the E field is provided in Table
6.2.2.4-1 and Table 6.2.2.4-2.

Table 6.2.2.4-1: E field interpretation (for E field in the fixed part
of the header)

+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > Value | > Description                                             |
+=========+===========================================================+
| > 0     | > Data field follows from the octet following the fixed   |
|         | > part of the header                                      |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > 1     | > A set of E field and LI field follows from the octet    |
|         | > following the fixed part of the header                  |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+

Table 6.2.2.4-2: E field interpretation (for E field in the extension
part of the header)

+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > Value | > Description                                             |
+=========+===========================================================+
| > 0     | > Data field follows from the octet following the LI      |
|         | > field following this E field                            |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > 1     | > A set of E field and LI field follows from the bit      |
|         | > following the LI field following this E field           |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+

#### 6.2.2.5 Length Indicator (LI) field

Length: 11 bits for RLC UM, 11 bits or 15 bits for RLC AM. The length of
the LI field for RLC AM is configured by upper layers.

The LI field indicates the length in bytes of the corresponding Data
field element present in the RLC data PDU delivered/received by an UM or
an AM RLC entity. The first LI present in the RLC data PDU header
corresponds to the first Data field element present in the Data field of
the RLC data PDU, the second LI present in the RLC data PDU header
corresponds to the second Data field element present in the Data field
of the RLC data PDU, and so on. The value 0 is reserved.

#### 6.2.2.6 Framing Info (FI) field

Length: 2 bits.

The FI field indicates whether a RLC SDU is segmented at the beginning
and/or at the end of the Data field. Specifically, the FI field
indicates whether the first byte of the Data field corresponds to the
first byte of a RLC SDU, and whether the last byte of the Data field
corresponds to the last byte of a RLC SDU. The interpretation of the FI
field is provided in Table 6.2.2.6-1.

Table 6.2.2.6-1: FI field interpretation

+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > Value | > Description                                             |
+=========+===========================================================+
| > 00    | > First byte of the Data field corresponds to the first   |
|         | > byte of a RLC SDU.                                      |
|         | >                                                         |
|         | > Last byte of the Data field corresponds to the last     |
|         | > byte of a RLC SDU.                                      |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > 01    | > First byte of the Data field corresponds to the first   |
|         | > byte of a RLC SDU.                                      |
|         | >                                                         |
|         | > Last byte of the Data field does not correspond to the  |
|         | > last byte of a RLC SDU.                                 |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > 10    | > First byte of the Data field does not correspond to the |
|         | > first byte of a RLC SDU.                                |
|         | >                                                         |
|         | > Last byte of the Data field corresponds to the last     |
|         | > byte of a RLC SDU.                                      |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > 11    | > First byte of the Data field does not correspond to the |
|         | > first byte of a RLC SDU.                                |
|         | >                                                         |
|         | > Last byte of the Data field does not correspond to the  |
|         | > last byte of a RLC SDU.                                 |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+

#### 6.2.2.7 Segment Offset (SO) field

Length: 15 bits or 16 bits (configurable).

The SO field indicates the position of the AMD PDU segment in bytes
within the original AMD PDU. Specifically, the SO field indicates the
position within the Data field of the original AMD PDU to which the
first byte of the Data field of the AMD PDU segment corresponds to. The
first byte in the Data field of the original AMD PDU is referred by the
SO field value \"000000000000000\" or \"0000000000000000\", i.e.,
numbering starts at zero.

#### 6.2.2.8 Last Segment Flag (LSF) field

Length: 1 bit.

The LSF field indicates whether or not the last byte of the AMD PDU
segment corresponds to the last byte of an AMD PDU. The interpretation
of the LSF field is provided in Table 6.2.2.8-1.

Table 6.2.2.8-1: LSF field interpretation

+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > Value | > Description                                             |
+=========+===========================================================+
| > 0     | > Last byte of the AMD PDU segment does not correspond to |
|         | > the last byte of an AMD PDU.                            |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| > 1     | > Last byte of the AMD PDU segment corresponds to the     |
|         | > last byte of an AMD PDU.                                |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+

#### 6.2.2.9 Data/Control (D/C) field

Length: 1 bit.

The D/C field indicates whether the RLC PDU is a RLC data PDU or RLC
control PDU. The interpretation of the D/C field is provided in Table
6.2.2.9-1.

Table 6.2.2.9-1: D/C field interpretation

+---------+---------------+
| > Value | > Description |
+=========+===============+
| > 0     | > Control PDU |
+---------+---------------+
| > 1     | > Data PDU    |
+---------+---------------+

#### 6.2.2.10 Re-segmentation Flag (RF) field

Length: 1 bit.

The RF field indicates whether the RLC PDU is an AMD PDU or AMD PDU
segment. The interpretation of the RF field is provided in Table
6.2.2.10-1.

Table 6.2.2.10-1: RF field interpretation

+---------+-------------------+
| > Value | > Description     |
+=========+===================+
| > 0     | > AMD PDU         |
+---------+-------------------+
| > 1     | > AMD PDU segment |
+---------+-------------------+

#### 6.2.2.11 Polling bit (P) field

Length: 1 bit.

The P field indicates whether or not the transmitting side of an AM RLC
entity requests a STATUS report from its peer AM RLC entity. The
interpretation of the P field is provided in Table 6.2.2.11-1.

Table 6.2.2.11-1: P field interpretation

+---------+-------------------------------+
| > Value | > Description                 |
+=========+===============================+
| > 0     | > Status report not requested |
+---------+-------------------------------+
| > 1     | > Status report is requested  |
+---------+-------------------------------+

#### 6.2.2.12 Reserved 1 (R1) field

Length: 1 bit.

The R1 field is a reserved field for this release of the protocol. The
transmitting entity shall set the R1 field to \"0\". The receiving
entity shall ignore this field.

#### 6.2.2.13 Control PDU Type (CPT) field

Length: 3 bits.

The CPT field indicates the type of the RLC control PDU. The
interpretation of the CPT field is provided in Table 6.2.2.13-1.

Table 6.2.2.13-1: CPT field interpretation

+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| > Value   | > Description                                           |
+===========+=========================================================+
| > 000     | > STATUS PDU                                            |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| > 001-111 | > Reserved                                              |
|           | >                                                       |
|           | > (PDUs with this coding will be discarded by the       |
|           | > receiving entity for this release of the protocol)    |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+

#### 6.2.2.14 Acknowledgement SN (ACK\_SN) field

Length: 10 bits or 16 bits (configurable).

The ACK\_SN field indicates the SN of the next not received RLC Data PDU
which is not reported as missing in the STATUS PDU. When the
transmitting side of an AM RLC entity receives a STATUS PDU, it
interprets that all AMD PDUs up to but not including the AMD PDU with SN
= ACK\_SN have been received by its peer AM RLC entity, excluding those
AMD PDUs indicated in the STATUS PDU with NACK\_SN and portions of AMD
PDUs indicated in the STATUS PDU with NACK\_SN, SOstart and SOend.

#### 6.2.2.15 Extension bit 1 (E1) field

Length: 1 bit.

The E1 field indicates whether or not a set of NACK\_SN, E1 and E2
follows. The interpretation of the E1 field is provided in Table
6.2.2.15-1.

Table 6.2.2.15-1: E1 field interpretation

+---------+-------------------------------------------------+
| > Value | > Description                                   |
+=========+=================================================+
| > 0     | > A set of NACK\_SN, E1 and E2 does not follow. |
+---------+-------------------------------------------------+
| > 1     | > A set of NACK\_SN, E1 and E2 follows.         |
+---------+-------------------------------------------------+

#### 6.2.2.16 Negative Acknowledgement SN (NACK\_SN) field

Length: 10 bits or 16 bits (configurable).

The NACK\_SN field indicates the SN of the AMD PDU (or portions of it)
that has been detected as lost at the receiving side of the AM RLC
entity.

#### 6.2.2.17 Extension bit 2 (E2) field

Length: 1 bit.

The E2 field indicates whether or not a set of SOstart and SOend
follows. The interpretation of the E2 field is provided in Table
6.2.2.17-1.

Table 6.2.2.17-1: E2 field interpretation

+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| > Value | > Description                                                   |
+=========+=================================================================+
| > 0     | > A set of SOstart and SOend does not follow for this NACK\_SN. |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| > 1     | > A set of SOstart and SOend follows for this NACK\_SN.         |
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

#### 6.2.2.18 SO start (SOstart) field

Length: 15 bits or 16 bits (configurable).

The SOstart field (together with the SOend field) indicates the portion
of the AMD PDU with SN = NACK\_SN (the NACK\_SN for which the SOstart is
related to) that has been detected as lost at the receiving side of the
AM RLC entity. Specifically, the SOstart field indicates the position of
the first byte of the portion of the AMD PDU in bytes within the Data
field of the AMD PDU. The first byte in the Data field of the original
AMD PDU is referred by the SOstart field value \"000000000000000\" or
\"0000000000000000\", i.e., numbering starts at zero.

#### 6.2.2.19 SO end (SOend) field

Length: 15 bits or 16 bits (configurable).

The SOend field (together with the SOstart field) indicates the portion
of the AMD PDU with SN = NACK\_SN (the NACK\_SN for which the SOend is
related to) that has been detected as lost at the receiving side of the
AM RLC entity. Specifically, the SOend field indicates the position of
the last byte of the portion of the AMD PDU in bytes within the Data
field of the AMD PDU. The first byte in the Data field of the original
AMD PDU is referred by the SOend field value \"000000000000000\" or
\"0000000000000000\", i.e., numbering starts at zero. The special SOend
value \"111111111111111\" or \"1111111111111111\" is used to indicate
that the missing portion of the AMD PDU includes all bytes to the last
byte of the AMD PDU.

7 Variables, constants and timers
=================================

7.1 State variables
-------------------

This clause describes the state variables used in AM and UM entities in
order to specify the RLC protocol. The state variables defined in this
clause are normative.

All state variables and all counters are non-negative integers.

All state variables related to AM data transfer can take values from 0
to 1023 for 10 bit SN or from 0 to 65535 for 16 bit SN. All arithmetic
operations contained in the present document on state variables related
to AM data transfer are affected by the AM modulus (i.e. final value =
\[value from arithmetic operation\] modulo 1024 for 10 bit SN and 65536
for 16 bit SN).

All state variables related to UM data transfer can take values from 0
to \[2^\[*sn-FieldLength*\]^ -- 1\]. All arithmetic operations contained
in the present document on state variables related to UM data transfer
are affected by the UM modulus (i.e. final value = \[value from
arithmetic operation\] modulo 2^\[*sn-FieldLength*\]^).

AMD PDUs and UMD PDUs are numbered integer sequence numbers (SN) cycling
through the field: 0 to 1023 for 10 bit SN and 0 to 65535 for 16 bit SN
for AMD PDU and 0 to \[2^\[*sn-FieldLength*\]^ -- 1\] for UMD PDU.

When performing arithmetic comparisons of state variables or SN values,
a modulus base shall be used.

VT(A) and VR(R) shall be assumed as the modulus base at the transmitting
side and receiving side of an AM RLC entity, respectively. This modulus
base is subtracted from all the values involved, and then an absolute
comparison is performed (e.g. VR(R) \<= SN \< VR(MR) is evaluated as
\[VR(R) -- VR(R)\] modulo 1024 \<= \[SN -- VR(R)\] modulo 1024 \<
\[VR(MR) -- VR(R)\] modulo 1024).

VR(UH) -- UM\_Window\_Size shall be assumed as the modulus base at the
receiving side of an UM RLC entity. This modulus base is subtracted from
all the values involved, and then an absolute comparison is performed
(e.g. (VR(UH) -- UM\_Window\_Size) \<= SN \< VR(UH) is evaluated as
\[(VR(UH) -- UM\_Window\_Size) -- (VR(UH) -- UM\_Window\_Size)\] modulo
2^\[*sn-FieldLength*\]^ \<= \[SN -- (VR(UH) -- UM\_Window\_Size)\]
modulo 2^\[*sn-FieldLength*\]^ \< \[VR(UH) -- (VR(UH) --
UM\_Window\_Size)\] modulo 2^\[*sn-FieldLength*\]^).

The transmitting side of each AM RLC entity shall maintain the following
state variables:

a\) VT(A) -- Acknowledgement state variable

This state variable holds the value of the SN of the next AMD PDU for
which a positive acknowledgment is to be received in-sequence, and it
serves as the lower edge of the transmitting window. It is initially set
to 0, and is updated whenever the AM RLC entity receives a positive
acknowledgment for an AMD PDU with SN = VT(A).

b\) VT(MS) -- Maximum send state variable

This state variable equals VT(A) + AM\_Window\_Size, and it serves as
the higher edge of the transmitting window.

c\) VT(S) -- Send state variable

This state variable holds the value of the SN to be assigned for the
next newly generated AMD PDU. It is initially set to 0, and is updated
whenever the AM RLC entity delivers an AMD PDU with SN = VT(S).

d\) POLL\_SN -- Poll send state variable

This state variable holds the value of VT(S)-1 upon the most recent
transmission of a RLC data PDU with the poll bit set to \"1\". It is
initially set to 0.

The transmitting side of each AM RLC entity shall maintain the following
counters:

a\) PDU\_WITHOUT\_POLL -- Counter

This counter is initially set to 0. It counts the number of AMD PDUs
sent since the most recent poll bit was transmitted.

b\) BYTE\_WITHOUT\_POLL -- Counter

This counter is initially set to 0. It counts the number of data bytes
sent since the most recent poll bit was transmitted.

c\) RETX\_COUNT -- Counter

This counter counts the number of retransmissions of an AMD PDU (see
clause 5.2.1). There is one RETX\_COUNT counter per PDU that needs to be
retransmitted.

The receiving side of each AM RLC entity shall maintain the following
state variables:

a\) VR(R) -- Receive state variable

This state variable holds the value of the SN following the last
in-sequence completely received AMD PDU, and it serves as the lower edge
of the receiving window. It is initially set to 0, and is updated
whenever the AM RLC entity receives an AMD PDU with SN = VR(R).

b\) VR(MR) -- Maximum acceptable receive state variable

This state variable equals VR(R) + AM\_Window\_Size, and it holds the
value of the SN of the first AMD PDU that is beyond the receiving window
and serves as the higher edge of the receiving window.

c\) VR(X) -- *t-Reordering* state variable

This state variable holds the value of the SN following the SN of the
RLC data PDU which triggered *t-Reordering*.

d\) VR(MS) -- Maximum STATUS transmit state variable

This state variable holds the highest possible value of the SN which can
be indicated by \"ACK\_SN\" when a STATUS PDU needs to be constructed.
It is initially set to 0.

e\) VR(H) -- Highest received state variable

This state variable holds the value of the SN following the SN of the
RLC data PDU with the highest SN among received RLC data PDUs. It is
initially set to 0.

Each transmitting UM RLC entity shall maintain the following state
variables:

a\) VT(US)

This state variable holds the value of the SN to be assigned for the
next newly generated UMD PDU. It is initially set to 0, and is updated
whenever the UM RLC entity delivers an UMD PDU with SN = VT(US).

Each receiving UM RLC entity shall maintain the following state
variables:

a\) VR(UR) -- UM receive state variable

This state variable holds the value of the SN of the earliest UMD PDU
that is still considered for reordering. It is initially set to 0. For
RLC entity configured for STCH, it is initially set to the SN of the
first received UMD PDU.

b\) VR(UX) -- UM *t-Reordering* state variable

This state variable holds the value of the SN following the SN of the
UMD PDU which triggered *t-Reordering*.

c\) VR(UH) -- UM highest received state variable

This state variable holds the value of the SN following the SN of the
UMD PDU with the highest SN among received UMD PDUs, and it serves as
the higher edge of the reordering window. It is initially set to 0. For
RLC entity configured for STCH, it is initially set to the SN of the
first received UMD PDU.

7.2 Constants
-------------

a\) AM\_Window\_Size

This constant is used by both the transmitting side and the receiving
side of each AM RLC entity to calculate VT(MS) from VT(A), and VR(MR)
from VR(R). AM\_Window\_Size = 512 when a 10 bit SN is used,
AM\_Window\_Size = 32768 when a 16 bit SN is used.

b\) UM\_Window\_Size

This constant is used by the receiving UM RLC entity to define SNs of
those UMD PDUs that can be received without causing an advancement of
the receiving window. UM\_Window\_Size = 16 when a 5 bit SN is used,
UM\_Window\_Size = 512 when a 10 bit SN is used and UM\_Window\_Size = 0
when the receiving UM RLC entity is configured for MCCH, MTCH, SC-MCCH,
SC-MTCH or STCH for sidelink communication.

7.3 Timers
----------

The following timers are configured by RRC \[5\]:

a\) *t-PollRetransmit*

This timer is used by the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity in order
to retransmit a poll (see sub clause 5.2.2).

b\) *t-Reordering*

This timer is used by the receiving side of an AM RLC entity and
receiving UM RLC entity in order to detect loss of RLC PDUs at lower
layer (see sub clauses 5.1.2.2 and 5.1.3.2). If *t-Reordering* is
running, *t-Reordering* shall not be started additionally, i.e. only one
*t-Reordering* per RLC entity is running at a given time.

c\) *t-StatusProhibit*

This timer is used by the receiving side of an AM RLC entity in order to
prohibit transmission of a STATUS PDU (see sub clause 5.2.3).

7.4 Configurable parameters
---------------------------

The following parameters are configured by RRC \[5\]:

a\) *maxRetxThreshold*

This parameter is used by the transmitting side of each AM RLC entity to
limit the number of retransmissions of an AMD PDU (see clause 5.2.1).

b\) *pollPDU*

This parameter is used by the transmitting side of each AM RLC entity to
trigger a poll for every *pollPDU* PDUs (see clause 5.2.2).

c\) *pollByte*

This parameter is used by the transmitting side of each AM RLC entity to
trigger a poll for every *pollByte* bytes (see clause 5.2.2).

d\) *sn-FieldLength*

This parameter gives the UM SN field size in bits (see clause 7.1).

########  Annex A (normative): List of CRs Containing Early Implementable Features and Corrections

This annex lists the Change Requests (CRs) whose changes may be
implemented by a UE of an earlier release than which the CR was approved
in (i.e. CRs that contain on their coversheets the sentence
\"Implementation of this CR from Rel-N will not cause interoperability
issues\").

Table A-1: List of CRs Containing Early Implementable Features and
Corrections

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| TDoc Number | CR          | CR Revision | Earliest    | Additional  |
| (           | Number(s)   | Number(s)   | Im          | Information |
| RP-xxxxxx): |             |             | plementable |             |
| CR Title    |             |             | Release     |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| RP-191382:  | 0141        | 2           | Release 13  |             |
| Correction  |             |             |             |             |
| on SN size  |             |             |             |             |
| for RLC AM  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: In  |             |             |             |             |
| case a CR   |             |             |             |             |
| has mirror  |             |             |             |             |
| CR(s), the  |             |             |             |             |
| mirror      |             |             |             |             |
| CR(s) are   |             |             |             |             |
| not listed. |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE 2: The |             |             |             |             |
| Additional  |             |             |             |             |
| Information |             |             |             |             |
| column      |             |             |             |             |
| briefly     |             |             |             |             |
| describes   |             |             |             |             |
| the content |             |             |             |             |
| of a CR in  |             |             |             |             |
| cases where |             |             |             |             |
| the CR      |             |             |             |             |
| title may   |             |             |             |             |
| not be      |             |             |             |             |
| descriptive |             |             |             |             |
| enough. If  |             |             |             |             |
| the CR is   |             |             |             |             |
| descriptive |             |             |             |             |
| enough,     |             |             |             |             |
| then the    |             |             |             |             |
| Additional  |             |             |             |             |
| Information |             |             |             |             |
| column may  |             |             |             |             |
| be left     |             |             |             |             |
| blank.      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | **TSG | **TSG | *     | **    | **    | **Su  | **New |
| ate** |  \#** | D     | *CR** | Rev** | Cat** | bject | vers  |
|       |       | oc.** |       |       |       | /Comm | ion** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-0  |       |       |       | First | 0.1.0 |
| 07-06 | AN2\# | 72715 |       |       |       | ver   |       |
|       | 58bis |       |       |       |       | sion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | End   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1.0. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 0.1.1 |
| 07-06 | AN2\# | 72910 |       |       |       | defin |       |
|       | 58bis |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | seg   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on-by |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | te-al |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igned |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDUs; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Align |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Info  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ele   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | exte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | part  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | conc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | atena |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | O     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ffset |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | L     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ength |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ele   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ge    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neral |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | text  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arame |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ters; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Exte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | L     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ength |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Indic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ator, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Align |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Info, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | O     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ffset |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Last  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Flag; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | L     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ength |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Indic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ator. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-0  |       |       |       | Moved | 0.1.2 |
| 07-06 | AN2\# | 72995 |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       | 58bis |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dedi  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anged |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ology |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Align |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Info  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Info; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Info  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ele   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ected |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | error |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (rep  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | laced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | L     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ength |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Last  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lag); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | place |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ho    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lders |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sp    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ecify |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | umber |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bits  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indiv |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | idual |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | elem  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ents; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Exte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Info  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Last  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Flag  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | using |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ta    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bles. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R     | R2-0  |       |       |       | Brac  | 0.1.3 |
| 07-06 | AN2\# | 72996 |       |       |       | keted |       |
|       | 58bis |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ology |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Info; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ected |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | numbe |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ring; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Exte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fset. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 0.1.4 |
| 07-08 | 2\#59 | 73554 |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scrip |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eives |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | segm  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ents; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ge    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neral |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | texts |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | etran |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | smiss |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ge    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neral |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | text  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Info; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fset. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | v     | 0.2.0 |
| 07-08 | 2\#59 | 73712 |       |       |       | 0.1.4 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | was   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | end   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WG2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .2.0. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 0.2.1 |
| 07-08 | 2\#59 | 73844 |       |       |       | some  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | abb   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | revia |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3.2;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and a |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .2.1, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | this  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pect; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | new   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | auses |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | under |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | auses |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.2.1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1-4. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2.1.3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (p    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | urely |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i.e.  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | based |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ossib |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | same  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stru  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cture |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | due   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | euse; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | opera |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fixed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | part  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | byte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | al    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igned |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | exte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | part  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | byte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ali   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gned; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | exte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | part  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (LI   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and E |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | are   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | req   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uired |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | last  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ele   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | this  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pect; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fu    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rther |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LI    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | set   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 11    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bits; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ected |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrors |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (refe |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | umber |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ta    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bles) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | varia |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bles: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T(S), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R(R), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MR). |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Corr  | 0.2.2 |
| 07-08 | 2\#59 | 73868 |       |       |       | ected |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rors; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cons  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tant: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | x\_Wn |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dow\_ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Size; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dulus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T(S), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R(R), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VT    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MR). |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Re    | 0.2.3 |
| 07-08 | 2\#59 | 73881 |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refe  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VT(R) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VT    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MR). |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-0  |       |       |       | v     | 1.0.0 |
| 07-09 | N\#37 | 70689 |       |       |       | 0.2.3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | was   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | end   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WG2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.0.0 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pres  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ented |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | enary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forma |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 1.0.1 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 74583 |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tra   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsmit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | opera |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | loss  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dete  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | after |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HARQ  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eorde |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ring; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on AM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reseg |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | menta |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"tr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | last  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | buff  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | "poll |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retra |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsmit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ti    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mer\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | its   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scrip |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ither |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | count |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | based |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | based |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | suppo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rted; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"po  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | its   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | peer  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | enti  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ty\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | old   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ause; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | "dete |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rece  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of an |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | its   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scrip |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fun   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | its   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scrip |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | least |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1byte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fixed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | suppo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rted; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plete |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | he    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aders |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cap   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tured |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and 3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | new   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ins   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erted |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | each  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | them; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | only  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | have  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rmat; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | so    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | it    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | also  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ap    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plies |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | seg   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rel   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | seg   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ected |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the E |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | De    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fined |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ength |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to be |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 15    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bits; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Comp  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | leted |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | D/C   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RF    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and P |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | varia |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bles: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VT(A) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VT    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MS); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VT(S) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MR); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cons  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tant: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tx    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_Win |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dow\_ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Size; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ti    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mers: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | _poll |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_pro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_sta |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tus\_ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | prohi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit.r |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Cl    | 1.0.2 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75061 |       |       |       | eaned |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | up    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ology |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (al   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igned |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wor   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ected |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | numbe |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ring, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | clari |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ficat |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | etc.) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | exce  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cases |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | when  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | negat |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ively |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ac    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | knowl |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edged |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ransm |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | itted |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cap   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tured |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | when  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | denti |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fied; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | use   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fun   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | parti |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cular |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tri   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ggers |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | are   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | able; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eiver |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LC-AM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | seg   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (al   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igned |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CCCH  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ha    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndled |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LC-UM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cor   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | respo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"co  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nside |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | red\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU / |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5.2.1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | impr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oved; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | it is |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0bits |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | seg   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | need  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | func  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | need  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [SI\] |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | can   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | halle |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nged. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 1.0.3 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75154 |       |       |       | an    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Local |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NACK; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5.2.1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | o     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bject |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (RLC  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anged |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU / |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rtion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trig  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gered |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | after |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | conta |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ining |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | th    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | poll  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | "HARQ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | order |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ed\", |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ather |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | than  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | just  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"re  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | order |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ed\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inco  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrect |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | incl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of a  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_s  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_pro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | which |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | just  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | says  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fun   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | suppo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rted. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | D     | 1.0.4 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75198 |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dulus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | invo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vari  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ables |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | was   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anged |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | order |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | align |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 25    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .322; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Fi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sli   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ghtly |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (e    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ditor |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ial). |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Text  | 1.1.0 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75430 |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eiver |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5.1.3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | was   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vised |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | align |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dulus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 25    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .322; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Fu    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rther |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eaned |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | up    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ermin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ology |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.0.4 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | was   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | end   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WG2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.1.0 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | above |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | revis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 1.1.1 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75500 |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ar    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | chite |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cture |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | model |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Fi   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2.1.1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1-1, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2.1.2 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1-1, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1.3. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1-1); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | di    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scard |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fun   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ality |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | may   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | opera |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LC-UM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1.2; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | opera |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LC-AM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5.1.3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inclu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | efini |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ithin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rece  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rece  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ived, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ac    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reord |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | xpiry |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easse |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mbly; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_and |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1.3; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | which |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | said  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | loss  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dete  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | after |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HARQ  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eorde |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ring; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"tr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | last  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | buff  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nstru |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5.2.3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | this  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ause; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | di    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scard |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PD    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CP\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to be |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | speci |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fied; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | notes |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rega  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pig   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gybac |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | king; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plete |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | he    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aders |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cap   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tured |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and 2 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | new   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ins   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erted |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | them, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | De    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fined |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | one   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ormat |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a new |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | old   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1.6; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R1    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CPT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AC    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | K\_SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | E1    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NAC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | K\_SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | E2    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SO    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | start |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SOend |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ield. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | varia |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bles: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(R  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -SO), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R(X), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(X  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -SO), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MS), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (UR), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (UMR) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (UX); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cons  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tants |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | x\_Wi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndow\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | _Size |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tx    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | W     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | conv  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erged |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | into  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | one   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stant |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | "Wind |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ow\_S |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ize\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | which |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | value |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fined |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | half  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pace, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cons  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tants |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"AM\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | _Wind |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ow\_S |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ize\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"UM\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | _Wind |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ow\_S |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ize\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | newly |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | def   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ined; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_r  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eorde |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ring. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 1.1.2 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75501 |       |       |       | defin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | "byte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | segme |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nt\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | which |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | said  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | di    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scard |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fun   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ality |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | may   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LC-UM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (the  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | when  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SN    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | falls |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ithin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reord |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | but   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | equal |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(R) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | recei |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ved); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LC-AM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (the  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | when  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | only  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | part  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eived |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rec   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eived |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dup   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | licat |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ion); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | text  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | upd   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ating |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | var   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iable |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MS); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | it    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | has   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to be |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cided |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wh    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ether |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reord |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | can   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trig  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gered |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by a  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | which |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | has   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | al    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ready |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | been  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trig  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gered |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | once; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | made. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 1.1.3 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75502 |       |       |       | text  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | upd   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ating |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | var   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iable |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MS); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | made. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Mod   | 1.1.4 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75503 |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R(MS) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dure; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(X) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | X-SO) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dure; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | made. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | Added | 1.1.5 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 75504 |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gards |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LC-AM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | opera |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | del   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivery |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | made. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R2-0  |       |       |       | v     | 1.2.0 |
| 07-11 | 2\#60 | 74589 |       |       |       | 1.1.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | was   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | end   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orsed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WG2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v1    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .2.0. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-38 | RP-0  |       |       |       | v     | 2.0.0 |
| 07-11 |       | 70918 |       |       |       | 1.2.0 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | was   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | st    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | epped |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2.0.0 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pres  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ented |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | enary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | appr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oval. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-38 | \-    |       |       |       | App   | 8.0.0 |
| 07-12 |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TSG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN-38 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | laced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | under |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-39 | RP-0  | 0001  | \-    |       | C     | 8.1.0 |
| 08-03 |       | 80196 |       |       |       | R0001 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | E     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -UTRA |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC:  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refe  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 36    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .321; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | defin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | "byte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | segme |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nt\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | named |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"Se  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | I     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nfo\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"Fr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aming |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fo\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Al    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igned |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | texts |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | upper |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | la    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | yer\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lower |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | la    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | yer\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stead |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /PDCP |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MAC;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BCCH  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CCCH  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ha    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndled |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C-TM; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dupl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | icate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dete  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rece  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ent   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ity;; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDUs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hould |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | deli  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vered |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | upper |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ayers |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sequ  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ence; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | so    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MAC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indi  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cates |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | total |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DUs\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tog   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ether |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | no    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | o     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pport |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stead |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"TB  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | si    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ze\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | di    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scard |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ap    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plied |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LC-AM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UM,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | intro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | duced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | det   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ailed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | di    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scard |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dure; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | named |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"RLC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | set\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"RLC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re-e  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stabl |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ishme |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nt\", |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | intro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | duced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | det   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ailed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e-est |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ablis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dure; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | flow  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (flow |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | supp  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orted |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | struc |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tured |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | texts |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | o     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | perat |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | adde  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d/mod |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | det   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ailed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | des   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cript |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | prio  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ritiz |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tra   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsmit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (co   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \>    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \>    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | new   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ata); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | term  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndow; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | negat |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ively |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ac    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | knowl |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edged |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mand  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | atory |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | negat |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ively |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ac    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | knowl |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edged |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HARQ  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | del   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivery |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | opti  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | onal; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | there |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be no |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | condi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | where |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | negat |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ively |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ac    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | knowl |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edged |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | shall |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retra |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsmit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ted); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"Tr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | last  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | buff  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | new   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tri   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ggers |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Every |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Poll  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_PDU |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DUs\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Every |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Poll\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | _Byte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Byt   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | es\", |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | intro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | duced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | their |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | des   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cript |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | their |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | confi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gurab |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FFS;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | "dete |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rece  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ilure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of an |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DU\"; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Intro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | duced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | func  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ossib |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | efine |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | more  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (no   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | more  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | defi  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ned); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | "most |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ignif |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | icant |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | least |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ignif |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | icant |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in an |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refe  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nu    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mbers |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | order |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ields |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1byte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | he    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ader; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | order |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ields |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU / |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | h     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (they |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | are   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | now   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | onfir |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | med); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | defin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ACK   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_SN; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | De    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fined |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sp    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ecial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | value |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Oend; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Added |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dulus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | opera |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vari  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ables |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(R  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -SO), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | X-SO) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UMR); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mod   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scrip |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion/ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | defin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vari  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ables |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MR), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R(X), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MS), |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R(UR) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (UX); |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Intro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | duced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | new   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | state |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vari  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ables |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(H) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R(UH) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | their |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | des   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cript |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Intro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | duced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | new   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cons  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tants |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Poll  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_PDU |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Poll\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | _Byte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | their |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | des   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cript |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Clar  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | only  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | one   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reord |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ru    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nning |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | one   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | en    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tity; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Intro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | duced |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | new   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | timer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_s  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_pro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hibit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | its   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scrip |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | made. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0002  | 1     |       | Cla   | 8.2.0 |
| 08-05 |       | 80411 |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BSR   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0003  | \-    |       | Re    | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | moval |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Note  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | upd   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ating |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R(MS) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | upon  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | xpiry |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reord |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0004  | \-    |       | Re    | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | moval |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rece  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | w     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0005  | \-    |       | Dupl  | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | icate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dete  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in UM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0006  | \-    |       | Corre | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0007  | \-    |       | Mis   | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | cella |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0008  | \-    |       | Small | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0012  | \-    |       | CR to | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reass |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | embly |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0015  | 1     |       | 3     | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \'RLC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | count |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | add   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nfigu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rable |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Pa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ramet |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ers\' |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0017  | \-    |       | Se    | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | align |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.323 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCP) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-40 | RP-0  | 0018  | \-    |       | CR on | 8.2.0 |
|       |       | 80411 |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cons  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | truct |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0019  | 1     |       | Cla   | 8.3.0 |
| 08-09 |       | 80691 |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0020  | \-    |       | C     | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | forma |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tting |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0021  | 2     |       | The   | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | value |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AC    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | K\_SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rtial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TATUS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0022  | 1     |       | Error | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | cases |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0024  | \-    |       | RLC   | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e-est |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ablis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hment |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0025  | \-    |       | Mis   | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | cella |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spe   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0029  | \-    |       | Cla   | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | reord |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | timer |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0032  | \-    |       | Cla   | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Trigg |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Condi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ports |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0033  | \-    |       | RLC   | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | UMD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rmats |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LI    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0036  | \-    |       | Corre | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on UM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ceive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0039  | \-    |       | Corre | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | en    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tity: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.2.3 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-41 | RP-0  | 0040  | \-    |       | Re    | 8.3.0 |
|       |       | 80691 |       |       |       | moval |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MBMS  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | chan  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nels: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.2.3 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0043  | \-    |       | Pro   | 8.4.0 |
| 08-12 |       | 81019 |       |       |       | posed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ali   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gning |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nstru |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pa    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rtial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ended |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0046  | \-    |       | Error | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | Han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0047  | \-    |       | Mis   | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | cella |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0048  | \-    |       | Corre | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | O     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ffset |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ields |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0049  | \-    |       | Corre | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | escri |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | del   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivery |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0050  | \-    |       | Minor | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssues |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0054  | \-    |       | The   | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(X) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0055  | \-    |       | A     | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | dding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0056  | \-    |       | Rem   | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | oving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | redu  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndant |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | text  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VT(A) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tting |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-42 | RP-0  | 0057  | \-    |       | Cou   | 8.4.0 |
|       |       | 81019 |       |       |       | nting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Retra |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsmis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0058  | \-    |       | CR to | 8.5.0 |
| 09-03 |       | 90129 |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RRC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Param |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eters |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0059  | \-    |       | Local | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | NA    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CKing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in UE |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0060  | \-    |       | Suppo | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SDU   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arger |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | than  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2047  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | o     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ctets |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0061  | \-    |       | CR on | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | seq   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | del   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivery |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fun   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UM    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0062  | \-    |       | Corre | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Del   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivery |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDU   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0063  | 1     |       | I     | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | ssues |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SO,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SOs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tart, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SOend |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ields |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0064  | \-    |       | Mis   | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | cella |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spe   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0065  | \-    |       | Corre | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | repo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trigg |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cond  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0066  | \-    |       | Alig  | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | nment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | one   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cond  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | poll  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bit   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0067  | 1     |       | Pro   | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | posed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Cla   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0068  | 1     |       | Every | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | Poll  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \_PDU |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDUs  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Every |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Poll\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | _Byte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bytes |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tri   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ggers |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0069  | \-    |       | UE    | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | beha  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | viour |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | when  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_p  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oll\_ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retra |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsmit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ex    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pires |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-43 | RP-0  | 0076  | \-    |       | Defin | 8.5.0 |
|       |       | 90129 |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ETX\_ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | COUNT |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssing |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-44 | RP-0  | 0080  | \-    |       | Reset | 8.6.0 |
| 09-06 |       | 90514 |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T\_   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | poll\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | _retr |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-44 | RP-0  | 0081  | \-    |       | RLC   | 8.6.0 |
|       |       | 90514 |       |       |       | func  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-44 | RP-0  | 0082  | 1     |       | Corre | 8.6.0 |
|       |       | 90514 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | res   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-44 | RP-0  | 0083  | \-    |       | Corre | 8.6.0 |
|       |       | 90514 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cond  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sto   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pping |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t-    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Reord |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in AM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mode  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-45 | RP-0  | 0084  | \-    |       | Pos   | 8.7.0 |
| 09-09 |       | 90906 |       |       |       | sible |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sinte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rpret |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | creme |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ETX\_ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | COUNT |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-46 | RP-0  | 0087  | \-    |       | Capt  | 9.0.0 |
| 09-12 |       | 91341 |       |       |       | uring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MBMS  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | agree |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-47 | RP-1  | 0089  | \-    |       | Corre | 9.1.0 |
| 10-03 |       | 00305 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntity |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-48 | RP-1  | 0091  | 1     |       | Corre | 9.2.0 |
| 10-06 |       | 00536 |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VR(H) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-49 | RP-1  | 0092  | 1     |       | Mis   | 9.3.0 |
| 10-09 |       | 00851 |       |       |       | cella |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-50 | \-    | \-    | \-    |       | Up    | 1     |
| 10-12 |       |       |       |       |       | grade | 0.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10 -  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | no    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tech  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nical |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-57 | \-    | \-    | \-    |       | Up    | 1     |
| 12-09 |       |       |       |       |       | grade | 1.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 11 -  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | no    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tech  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nical |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-64 | RP-1  | 0099  | 1     |       | Ext   | 1     |
| 14-06 |       | 40892 |       |       |       | ended | 2.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LI    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-65 | RP-1  | 0101  | \-    |       | C     | 1     |
| 14-09 |       | 41511 |       |       |       | orrec | 2.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ext   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ended |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LI    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-66 | \-    | \-    | \-    |       | MCC   | 1     |
| 14-12 |       |       |       |       |       | edit  | 2.1.1 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-67 | RP-1  | 0105  | 1     |       | RLC   | 1     |
| 15-03 |       | 50376 |       |       |       | con   | 2.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | caten |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ext   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ended |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LI    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | field |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-67 | RP-1  | 0107  | \-    |       | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 50374 |       |       |       | trodu | 2.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ProSe |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | D     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | irect |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | munic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-69 | RP-1  | 0108  | \-    |       | C     | 1     |
| 15-09 |       | 51441 |       |       |       | orrec | 2.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | STCH  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-70 | RP-1  | 0114  | \-    |       | In    | 1     |
| 15-12 |       | 52071 |       |       |       | trodu | 3.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ext   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ended |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tocol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rmats |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CA    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nhanc |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-70 | RP-1  | 0115  | \-    |       | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 52080 |       |       |       | trodu | 3.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C-PTM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-71 | RP-1  | 0116  | 1     |       | Cla   | 1     |
| 16-03 |       | 60470 |       |       |       | rific | 3.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Po    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | last  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-72 | RP-1  | 0120  | 1     |       | Add   | 1     |
| 16-06 |       | 61078 |       |       |       | ition | 3.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sid   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | elink |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ove   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rview |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | model |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-72 | RP-1  | 0121  | 2     |       | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 61081 |       |       |       | trodu | 3.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B-IoT |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-75 | RP-1  | 0126  | \-    | F     | Corre | 1     |
| 17-03 |       | 70655 |       |       |       | ction | 3.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | width |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | defin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B-IoT |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-75 | RP-1  | 0125  | 2     | B     | I     | 1     |
|       |       | 70637 |       |       |       | ntrod | 4.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ucing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-14 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B-IoT |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | en    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | into  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-77 | RP-1  | 0127  | 2     | C     | P     | 1     |
| 17-09 |       | 71914 |       |       |       | acket | 4.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Reord |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Sid   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | elink |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-77 | RP-1  | 0129  | 1     | A     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 71920 |       |       |       | orrec | 4.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gical |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-13 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MTC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-77 | RP-1  | 0130  | \-    | F     | C     | 1     |
|       |       | 71915 |       |       |       | orrec | 4.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e-est |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ablis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hment |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B-IoT |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | using |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plane |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-78 | RP-1  | 0132  | 1     | B     | EN-DC | 1     |
| 17-12 |       | 72614 |       |       |       | im    | 5.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pacts |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LTE   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       |       | Added | 1     |
| 18-04 |       |       |       |       |       | 5G    | 5.0.1 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | logo  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cover |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | page  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0133  | 1     | B     | In    | 1     |
| 18-07 |       | 81252 |       |       |       | trodu | 5.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fu    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rther |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B-IoT |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | en    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.322 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | RP-80 | RP-1  | 0138  | 1     | B     | In    | 1     |
|       |       | 81247 |       |       |       | trodu | 5.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ultra |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rel   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iable |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Low   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | La    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tency |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | munic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LTE   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-84 | RP-1  | 0141  | 2     | F     | Corre | 1     |
| 19-06 |       | 91382 |       |       |       | ction | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AM    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-85 | RP-1  | 0142  | \-    | F     | Norm  | 1     |
| 19-09 |       | 92198 |       |       |       | ative | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Annex |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CRs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Conta |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ining |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Early |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Imp   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lemen |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | table |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Fea   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tures |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-88 | RP-2  | 0145  | 2     | F     | Cla   | 1     |
| 20-07 |       | 01168 |       |       |       | rific | 5.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RLC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UM SN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | B-IoT |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RP-88 |       |       |       |       | Upg   | 1     |
| 20-07 |       |       |       |       |       | raded | 6.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
