![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.0979166666666667in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#data-link-layer)

[6](#s1-interface-user-plane-protocol)

[6](#general)

[6](#gtp-u)

[6](#udpip)

[7](#diffserv-code-point-marking)

[8](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations
4 Data Link Layer 5 S1 Interface user plane protocol 5.1 General 5.2
GTP-U 5.3 UDP/IP 5.4 Diffserv code point marking Annex A (informative):
Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards for user data transport
protocols and related signalling protocols to establish user plane
transport bearers over the S1 interface.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling
Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".

\[3\] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".

\[4\] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".

\[6\] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN); Architecture description\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions below apply. Terms and definitions not defined below can be
found in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**S1:** interface between an eNB and an EPC, providing an
interconnection point between the EUTRAN and the EPC. It is also
considered as a reference point.

**E-RAB: as defined in TS 36.401 \[7\]**.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

eNB E-UTRAN Node B

EPC Evolved Packet Core

E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer

E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN

GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol

IP Internet Protocol

TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier

UDP User Datagram Protocol

4 Data Link Layer
=================

Any data link protocol that fulfils the requirements toward the upper
layer may be used.

5 S1 Interface user plane protocol
==================================

5.1 General
-----------

The transport layer for data streams over S1 is an IP based Transport.
The following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over S1.

Figure 6.1: Transport network layer for data streams over S1

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported
as the transport for data streams on the S1 interface. The data link
layer is as specified in clause 4.

The transport bearer is identified by the GTP-U TEID (TS 29.281 \[2\])
and the IP address (source TEID, destination TEID, source IP address,
destination IP address).

5.2 GTP-U
---------

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol shall be used over the S1 interface
toward the EPC.

5.3 UDP/IP
----------

The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 \[3\]).

The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 \[2\].

The eNB and the EPC shall support fragmentation and assembly of GTP
packets at the IP layer.

The eNB and the EPC shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 \[5\]) and/or IPv4
(IETF RFC 791 \[6\]).

There may be one or several IP addresses in the eNB and in the EPC. The
packet processing function in the EPC shall send downstream packets of a
given E-RAB to the eNB IP address (received in S1-AP) associated to that
particular E-RAB. The packet processing function in the eNB shall send
upstream packets of a given E-RAB to the EPC IP address (received in
S1-AP) associated to that particular E-RAB.

The Transport Layer Address signalled in S1-AP messages is a bit string
of

a\) 32 bits in case of IPv4 address according to IETF RFC 791 \[6\]; or

b\) 128 bits in case of IPv6 address according to IETF RFC 2460 \[5\];
or

c\) 160 bits if both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are signalled, in which
case the IPv4 address is contained in the first 32 bits.

5.4 Diffserv code point marking
-------------------------------

IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 \[4\])
shall be supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv
code points shall be configurable by O&M based on QoS Class Identifier
(QCI) Characteristics and other E-UTRAN traffic parameters (e.g. ARP).
Traffic categories are implementation-specific and may be determined
from the application parameters.

######## Annex A (informative): Change History

  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                 **New**
  38                                             specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change control   8.0.0
  39           RP-080078      0001     1         Data link layer proposal                                            8.1.0
  39           RP-080078      0002               Editorial correction on 36.414                                      8.1.0
  40           RP-080302      0003     1         eGTP draft reference for S1 Data Transport                          8.2.0
  40           RP-080302      0005               Define format for TLA signalled in S1AP messages                    8.2.0
  42           RP-080845      0006               Correction of invalid references                                    8.3.0
  42           RP-080845      0007               Correction of SAE Bearers                                           8.3.0
  43           RP-090083      0008               Correction on GTP-U version                                         8.4.0
  12/2009                                        Creation of Rel-9 version based on v8.4.0                           9.0.0
  12/2010                                        Creation of Rel-10 version based on v 9.0.0                         10.0.0
  SP-49        SP-100629                         Clarification on the use of References (TS 21.801 CR\#0030)         10.0.1
  52           RP-110684      0009               Correction of references                                            10.1.0
  09/2012                                        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                      11.0.0
  63           RP-140297      0011     1         The content of Transport Layer Address                              12.0.0
  66           RP-142093      0015     3         The correction of Transport Layer Address                           12.1.0
  12/2015                                        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                      13.0.0
  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                   
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                      **New version**
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                 Promotion to Release 14 without technical change         14.0.0
  2017-06              RP\#76        RP-171324   0017     2         F         Derivation of Diffserv code point marking includes ARP   14.1.0
  2017-06              RP\#76        RP-171324   0018                         Rapporteur editorial review                              14.1.0
  2018-06              SA\#80        \-          \-       \-        \-        Promotion to Release 15 without technical change         15.0.0
  2020-07              SA\#88-e      \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                           **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
