![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1083333333333334in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#s1-signalling-bearer)

[6](#functions-and-protocol-stack)

[6](#data-link-layer)

[6](#ip-layer)

[6](#transport-layer)

[8](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 S1
signalling bearer 4.1 Functions and protocol stack 5 Data link layer 6
IP layer 7 Transport layer Annex A (informative): Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards for signalling transport to
be used across S1 interface. S1 interface is a logical interface between
the eNB and the E-UTRAN core network. The present document describes how
the S1-AP signalling messages are transported over S1.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".

\[3\] IETF RFC 791(1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".

\[4\] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**S1:** interface between an eNB and an EPC, providing an
interconnection point between the EUTRAN and the EPC. It is also
considered as a reference point.

**S1-MME**: Reference point for the control plane protocol between
E-UTRAN and MME.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply.

eNB E-UTRAN Node B

EPC

DiffServ Differentiated Service

IP Internet Protocol

MME Mobility Management Entity

PPP Point to Point Protocol

SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol

4 S1 signalling bearer
======================

4.1 Functions and protocol stack
--------------------------------

S1 signalling bearer provides the following functions:

\- Provision of reliable transfer of S1-AP message over S1-MME
interface.

\- Provision of networking and routeing function

\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network

\- Support for flow control and congestion control

The protocol stack for S1 signalling bearer is shown in figure 4.1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following clauses.

Figure 4.1: S1-MME signalling bearer protocol stack

The transport network layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on
top of IP.

5 Data link layer
=================

The support of any suitable data link layer protocol, e.g. PPP,
Ethernet, etc. , shall not be prevented.

6 IP layer
==========

The eNB and MME shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 \[2\]) and/or IPv4
(IETF RFC 791 \[3\]).

The IP layer of S1-MME only supports point-to-point transmission for
delivering S1-AP message.

The eNB and MME shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as
described in IETF RFC 2474 \[4\].

7 Transport layer
=================

SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 \[5\]) shall be supported as the transport layer of
S1-MME signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier (ppid)
assigned by IANA to be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol
S1AP is 18. The byte order of the ppid shall be big-endian.

SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting
various signalling protocols over IP network.

There shall be only one SCTP association established between one MME and
eNB pair.

The eNB shall establish the SCTP association. The SCTP Destination Port
number value assigned by IANA to be used for S1AP is 36412.

Within the SCTP association established between one MME and eNB pair:

\- a single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole
use of S1AP elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated
signalling.

\- At least one pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the
sole use of S1AP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated
signallings. However a few pairs (i.e. more than one) should be
reserved.

\- A single UE-associated signalling shall use one SCTP stream and the
stream should not be changed during the communication of the
UE-associated signalling.

Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing
between two end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple
IP addresses. SCTP end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP
end-point. **For SCTP endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from MME
or eNB, at any time for an already established SCTP association, which
shall be handled as defined in IETF RFC 4960 \[5\] in subclause 5.2.**

The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific
mechanism, initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling
traffic at the source and prioritise certain messages.

######## Annex A (informative): Change History

  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
  **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                 **New**
  38                                             Specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change control   8.0.0
  *39*         *RP-080077*    *0001*   *-*       *Dedication of common streams over S1-MME*                          *8.1.0*
  *40*         *RP-080301*    0004     *-*       SCTP flow control and overload protection                           *8.2.0*
  *40*         *RP-080301*    0005     *-*       Redundancy of the SCTP endpoint                                     *8.2.0*
  41           RP-080583      0007     1         Correct the wording of common and dedicated procedures              8.3.0
  41           RP-080583      0008               Enhancing the understandability of section 7 TS 36.412              8.3.0
  41           RP-080583      0009               Clarification of SCTP Congestion Indication over S1                 8.3.0
  42           RP-080845      0010               Removal of chapter 8                                                *8.4.0*
  43           RP-090090      0011     1         The use of the number of stream ID for a UE-associated signalling   *8.5.0*
  43           RP-090085      0012     1         Clarification of SCTP streams                                       *8.5.0*
  43           RP-090083      0013               CR for FFS(es) on signalling bearer function                        *8.5.0*
  43           RP-090085      0015     1         Clarification the overload protection function support in SCTP      *8.5.0*
  46           RP-091183      0016     1         Specification of SCTP destination port number                       *8.6.0*
  12/2009                                        Creation of Rel-9 version based on v8.6.0                           *9.0.0*
  47           RP-100213      0018               Specification of Payload Identifier                                 *9.1.0*
  12/2010                                        Creation of Rel-10 version based on v9.1.0                          *10.0.0*
  SP-49        SP-100629                         Clarification on the use of References (TS 21.801 CR\#0030)         *10.0.1*
  52           RP-110685      0020               Correction to the References in 36.412                              *10.1.0*
  09/2012                                        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                      *11.0.0*
  09/2014                                        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                      *12.0.0*
  12/2015                                        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                      *13.0.0*
  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                             
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                **New version**
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                 Promotion to Release 14 without technical change   14.0.0
  2018-06              SA\#80        \-          \-       \-        \-        Promotion to Release 15 without technical change   15.0.0
  2020-03              RP\#87-e      RP-200425   0023               F         Rapporteur's Update for 36.412                     16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
