3GPP TS 36.422 V16.2.0 (2023-06)

Technical Specification

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network\
(E-UTRAN);

X2 signalling transport

(Release 16)

![](media/image1.jpeg) ![](media/image2.png)

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> LTE, radio
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> <http://www.3gpp.org>

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 4

1 Scope 5

2 References 5

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 5

3.1 Definitions 5

3.3 Abbreviations 5

4\. X2 signalling bearer 6

4.1 Function and protocol stack 6

5 Data link layer 6

6 IP layer 6

7 Transport layer 7

Annex A (informative): Change History 8

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards for Signalling Transport to
be used across X2 interface. X2 interface is a logical interface between
eNBs, or an eNB and an en-gNB. The present document describes how the
X2-AP signalling messages are transported over X2.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".

\[3\] IETF RFC 791(1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".

\[4\] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and NR; Multi-connectivity; Stage 2\".

\[7\] IETF RFC 6335 (2011-08): \" Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
(IANA) Procedures for the Management of the Service Name and Transport
Protocol Port Number Registry\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**X2**: logical interface between two eNBs or an eNB and an en-gNB.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR
21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

eNB E-UTRAN Node B

en-gNB as defined in TS 37.340 \[6\]

DiffServ Differentiated Service

IANA Internet Assigned Number Authority

IP Internet Protocol

PPP Point to Point Protocol

SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol

4. X2 signalling bearer
=======================

4.1 Function and protocol stack
-------------------------------

X2 signalling bearer provides the following functions:

\- Provision of reliable transfer of X2-AP message over X2 interface.

\- Provision of networking and routeing function

\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network

\- Support for flow control and congestion control

The protocol stack for X2 Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following sections.

Figure 4.1: X2 signalling bearer protocol stack

The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on
top of IP.

5 Data link layer
=================

The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP,
Ethernet, etc. , shall not be prevented.

6 IP layer
==========

The eNB and the en-gNB shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 \[2\]) and/or
IPv4 (IETF RFC 791 \[3\]).

The IP layer of X2 only supports point-to-point transmission for
delivering X2-AP message.

The eNB and the en-gNB shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as
described in IETF RFC 2474 \[4\].

7 Transport layer
=================

SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 \[5\]) shall be supported as the transport layer of
X2 signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier (ppid) assigned by
IANA to be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol X2AP is 27.
The byte order of the ppid shall be big-endian.

SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting
various signalling protocols over IP network.

There shall be only one SCTP association established between one eNB
pair. An eNB and an en-gNB shall support a configuration with a single
SCTP association per one eNB and en-gNB pair. Configurations with
multiple SCTP endpoints per one eNB and en-gNB pair should be supported.
When configurations with multiple SCTP associations are supported,
en-gNB may request to dynamically add/remove SCTP associations between
one eNB and en-gNB pair. Within the set of SCTP associations established
between one eNB and en-gNB pair, a single SCTP association shall be
employed for X2AP elementary procedures that utilize non-UE-associated
signalling with the possibility of fail-over to a new association to
enable robustness. An eNB and an en-gNB shall use the Destination Port
Number value 36422 assigned by IANA to be used for X2AP and this value
shall also be used in Source Port Number by all eNBs and en-gNBs within
a network. When the en-gNB request to dynamically add additional SCTP
association between one eNB and en-gNB pair, the SCTP Destination Port
number value may be 36422, or any dynamic port value (IETF RFC 6335
\[7\]).

NOTE: A multi-homed eNB implementation should provide the correspondent
eNB with the set of IP addresses supported during SCTP association
establishment unless the correspondent eNB already has this information
e.g. through IP address management.

An arbitrary eNB or en-gNB shall be able to initiate the INIT procedure
towards another en-gNB or eNB for establishing the SCTP association.

Within the SCTP association established between one eNB pair;

\- A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole
use of X2AP elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated
signalling.

\- At least one pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the
sole use of X2AP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated
signalling. However a few pairs (i.e. more than one) should be reserved.

\- A single UE-associated signalling shall use one SCTP stream and the
stream should not be changed during the communication of the
UE-associated signalling.

Between one eNB and en-gNB pair;

\- A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole
use of X2AP elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated
signalling.

\- At least one pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the
sole use of X2AP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated
signalling. However a few pairs (i.e. more than one) should be reserved.

\- For a single UE-associated signalling, the eNB and the en-gNB shall
use one SCTP association and one SCTP stream and the SCTP
association/stream should not be changed during the communication of the
UE-associated signalling until after current SCTP association is failed
or removed, or TNL binding update is performed by the eNB or the en-gNB.
The eNB (or en-gNB) can update the UE TNLA binding by sending the first
available X2AP message for the UE to the peer en-gNB (or eNB) via a
different TNLA, and the peer en-gNB (or eNB) shall update the X2AP UE
TNLA binding with the new TNLA.

Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing
between two end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple
IP addresses. SCTP end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP
end-point. For **SCTP endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from
either of the eNBs or an en-gNB, at any time for an already established
SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined in IETF RFC 4960
\[5\] in subclause 5.2.**

The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific
mechanism, initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling
traffic at the source and prioritise certain messages.

########  Annex A (informative): Change History

  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
  **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                 **New**
  38                                             Apecification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change control   8.0.0
  39           RP-080077      0001     \-        Dedication of common streams over X2                                8.1.0
  *40*         *RP-080301*    *0003*   *-*       *SCTP flow control and overload protection*                         *8.2.0*
  41           RP-080583      0005     1         Correct the wording of common and dedicated procedures              8.3.0
  41           RP-080583      0006     2         SCTP restart function for X2 interface                              8.3.0
  41           RP-080583      0007     \-        Clarification of SCTP Congestion Indication over X2                 8.3.0
  42           RP-080855      0008     1         Further clarification of SCTP Association handling                  8.4.0
  42           RP-080855      0009               Removal of chapter 8                                                8.4.0
  43           RP-090090      0010     1         The use of the number of stream ID for a UE-associated signalling   *8.5.0*
  43           RP-090085      0011     1         Clarification of SCTP streams                                       *8.5.0*
  43           RP-090085      0012     1         Clarification the overload protection function support in SCTP      *8.5.0*
  46           RP-091183      0014     1         Specification of SCTP destination port number                       *8.6.0*
  \-           \-             \-       \-        Created Rel-9 version based on v8.6.0                               *9.0.0*
  47           RP-100213      0016               Specification of Payload Identifier                                 *9.1.0*
  50                                             Created Rel-10 version based on v. 9.1.0                            *10.0.0*
  SP-49        SP-100629                         Clarification on the use of References (TS 21.801 CR\#0030)         *10.0.1*
  52           RP-110685      0018               Correction to the References in 36.422                              *10.1.0*
  09/2012                                        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                      *11.0.0*
  09/2014                                        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                      *12.0.0*
  12/2015                                        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                      *13.0.0*
  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                 
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                    **New version**
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                 Promotion to Release 14 without technical change                       14.0.0
  2018-06              SA\#80        \-          \-       \-        \-        Promotion to Release 15 without technical change                       15.0.0
  2018-12              RP-82         RP-182447   0025     2         F         Adding description of EN-DC                                            15.1.0
  2020-03              RP-87-e       RP-200425   0035     2         B         CR to 36.422 for Supporting mutiple SCTP assoication in EN-DC          16.0.0
  2020-03              RP-87-e       RP-200425   0036               F         Rapporteur's Update for 36.422                                         16.0.0
  2020-09              RP-89-e       RP-201954   0037     3         F         SCTP association change when current SCTP association is failed (X2)   16.1.0
  2023-06              RAN\#100      RP-231075   0038     3         F         Corrections on TNL association (X2)                                    16.2.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
