![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope.)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#general-architecture-for-eutran-mbms)

[7](#functions-of-m1-interface-for-mbms)

[7](#general)

[7](#multicast-group-management-function)

[7](#content-synchronization-function)

[7](#functions-of-m2-interface-for-mbms)

[7](#general-1)

[7](#m2-interface-setup-and-configuration-update-functions)

[7](#mbms-session-management-function)

[8](#m2-service-context-management-function)

[8](#mbms-e-rab-management-functions)

[8](#m2-link-management-function)

[8](#mbms-service-suspension-and-resumption-function)

[8](#mbms-scheduling-information-transfer-function)

[8](#mbms-signalling-synchronization-over-m2)

[8](#m2-interface-reset-and-error-processing-function)

[8](#error-indication)

[8](#reset)

[9](#mbms-counting-function)

[9](#functions-of-m3-interface-for-mbms)

[9](#general-2)

[9](#mbms-session-management-function-1)

[9](#m3-service-context-management-function)

[9](#mbms-e-rab-management-functions-1)

[9](#m3-interface-reset-and-error-processing-function)

[9](#error-indication-1)

[9](#reset-1)

[9](#m3-interface-setup-and-configuration-update-functions)

[10](#protocol-structure-for-mbms-related-interface-in-e-utran)

[10](#general-3)

[10](#m1)

[10](#m2)

[10](#m3)

[10](#other-mbms-e-utran-interface-specifications)

[10](#layer-1-for-interfaces-supporting-mbms-within-e-utran-3gpp-ts-36.441)

[10](#signalling-transport-for-interfaces-supporting-mbms-within-e-utran-3gpp-ts-36.442)

[10](#e-utran-m2-application-protocol-m2ap-3gpp-ts-36.443)

[11](#e-utran-m3-application-protocol-m3ap-3gpp-ts-36.444)

[11](#e-utran-m1-data-transport-3gpp-ts-36.445)

[11](#e-utran-mbms-synchronisation-protocol-3gpp-ts-25.446)

[12](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope. 2 References
3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Symbols 3.3
Abbreviations 4 General Architecture for EUTRAN MBMS 5 Functions of M1
interface for MBMS 5.1 General 5.2 Multicast group management function
5.3 Content synchronization function 6 Functions of M2 interface for
MBMS 6.1 General 6.2 M2 interface setup and configuration update
functions 6.3 MBMS Session management function 6.3.1 M2 service context
management function 6.3.2 MBMS E-RAB management functions 6.3.3 M2 link
management function 6.3.4 MBMS Service Suspension and Resumption
function 6.4 MBMS Scheduling Information transfer function 6.5 MBMS
signalling synchronization over M2 6.6 M2 interface reset and error
processing function 6.6.1 Error indication 6.6.2 Reset 6.7 MBMS Counting
Function 7 Functions of M3 interface for MBMS 7.1 General 7.2 MBMS
Session management function 7.2.1 M3 service context management function
7.2.2 MBMS E-RAB management functions 7.3 M3 interface reset and error
processing function 7.3.1 Error indication 7.3.2 Reset 7.4 M3 interface
setup and configuration update functions 8 Protocol structure for MBMS
related interface in E-UTRAN 8.1 General 8.2 M1 8.3 M2 8.4 M3 9 Other
MBMS E-UTRAN Interface Specifications 9.1 Layer 1 for interfaces
supporting MBMS within E-UTRAN (3GPP TS 36.441) 9.2 Signalling Transport
for interfaces supporting MBMS within E-UTRAN (3GPP TS 36.442) 9.3
E-UTRAN M2 Application Protocol (M2AP) (3GPP TS 36.443) 9.4 E-UTRAN M3
Application Protocol (M3AP) (3GPP TS 36.444) 9.5 E-UTRAN M1 Data
Transport (3GPP TS 36.445) 9.6 E-UTRAN MBMS synchronisation protocol
(3GPP TS 25.446) Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope.
========

The present document describes the overall architecture of the interface
for the provision of MBMS in the E-UTRAN. This includes also a
description of the general aspects, assumptions and principles guiding
the architecture and interface. The MBMS functions to be provided within
that architecture are summarized. It provides an introduction to the TSG
RAN TS 36.44x series of UMTS Technical Specifications that define the
different interfaces introduced for MBMS provision in E-UTRAN.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.441: "Layer 1 for interfaces supporting MBMS within
E-UTRAN"

\[3\] 3GPP TS 36.442: "Signalling Transport for interfaces supporting
MBMS within E-UTRAN"

\[4\] 3GPP TS 36.443: "EUTRAN M2 Application Protocol (M2AP)"

\[5\] 3GPP TS 36.444: "EUTRAN M3 Application Protocol (M3AP)"

\[6\] 3GPP TS 36.445: "E-UTRAN M1 Data Transport"

\[7\] 3GPP TS 25.446: "MBMS synchronisation protocol (SYNC)"

\[8\] 3GPP TS 23.246: "MBMS Architecture and functional description"

\[9\] 3GPP TS 36.300: "E-UTRA and E-UTRAN overall description"

\[10\] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission
Protocol\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

Definition format

**\<defined term\>**: \<definition\>.

**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them
literally.

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

Symbol format

\<symbol\> \<Explanation\>

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

BM-SC Broadcast-Multicast Service Centre

EPC Evolved Packet Core

MCE Multi-cell/multicast Coordination Entity

MME Mobility Management Entity

RNL Radio Network Layer

TNL Transport Network Layer

4 General Architecture for EUTRAN MBMS
======================================

Figure 4-1 General Architecture for E-UTRAN MBMS

*Figure 4-1 shows a simplified architecture for MBMS in LTE/SAE. It
consists of EPC functional entities and E-UTRAN nodes. Functions of MBMS
EPC entities are defined in TS 23.246 \[8\]. Functions of MBMS E-UTRAN
nodes are defined in TS 36.300 \[9\]. It should be noted that TS 36.300
\[9\] also allows MCE be deployed inside eNodeB.*

*Interfaces related to E-UTRAN (i.e. M1, M2 and M3) are introduced in
this document. For MBMS, control signaling and user plane data packet
are distributed from the EPC to E-UTRAN through different interfaces.*

● Control plane interfaces

> *M3, M2 interface are pure control plane interfaces.*
>
> *M3 between MME and MCE mainly carries MBMS session management
> signaling.*
>
> *A MCE is connected to one or more than one eNBs within the same MBSFN
> through M2 interface mainly for MBMS session management signaling and
> radio configuration signaling.*

● User plane interface

> *M1 interface is a pure user plane interface.*
>
> *A MBMS GW is connected to multiple eNBs through M1 interface for data
> distribution.*

*Reference points within EPC are not in the scope of this document.
Please refer to TS 23.246 \[8\] for details.*

5 Functions of M1 interface for MBMS
====================================

5.1 General
-----------

***"M1" Interface: MBMS GW -- eNB***

The M1 interface is the user plane interface of MBMS between MBMS GW and
eNB. IP multicast is used to deliver the downlink packets over the M1
interface and there is no uplink data over M1 radio network layer. SYNC
protocol (TS 25.446 \[7\]) is used over the M1 interface to keep the
content synchronization for MBMS service data transmission.

5.2 Multicast group management function
---------------------------------------

IP multicast is used to deliver the packets over the M1 interface. The
M1 interface has the function to manage the IP multicast groups. The
MBMS GW maintains the IP multicast groups. The MBMS GW allocates the IP
multicast group address when the session arrives, and may release it at
session stop. At the eNB side, the eNB joins the IP multicast group to
receive the MBMS User Plane data at session start, leaves the IP
multicast group when the session stops, may leave the IP multicast group
when the session suspends and may rejoin the IP multicast group when the
session resumes.

5.3 Content synchronization function
------------------------------------

The packets delivered over M1 interface will be synchronously
transmitted by eNBs. To support the inter-eNB content synchronization,
SYNC protocol layer is defined between BM-SC to eNB, which is used to
carry additional information that enable eNBs to identify the timing for
radio frame transmission and detect packet loss. Every packet in M1
contains the SYNC protocol information which is encapsulated at BM-SC.

6 Functions of M2 interface for MBMS
====================================

6.1 General
-----------

***"M2" Interface: MCE -- eNB***

An Application Part (M2AP) is defined in TS 36.443 \[4\] for this
interface, which conveys at least radio configuration data for the
multi-cell transmission mode eNBs and Session Control Signaling. SCTP
(IETF RFC 4960 \[10\]) is used as signaling transport i.e.
Point-to-Point signaling is applied.

6.2 M2 interface setup and configuration update functions
---------------------------------------------------------

The M2 Setup (respectively the eNB and MCE configuration update)
function allows to exchange (respectively update) application level data
needed for the eNB and MCE to interoperate correctly on the M2 interface
after the TNL association has become operational.

6.3 MBMS Session management function
------------------------------------

MBMS session management function is responsible for starting, updating,
and stopping MBMS sessions.

### 6.3.1 M2 service context management function

The M2 service context management function supports the establishment of
the necessary overall initial service context including MBMS E-RAB
context, M2 signalling connection ID(s), etc.

The establishment of the overall initial M2 service context is initiated
by the MCE.

The M2 service context management function also supports the release of
the context previously established in the eNB due to service
termination. The release of the context is triggered by the MCE.

### 6.3.2 MBMS E-RAB management functions

The MBMS E-RAB service management function is responsible for
establishing and releasing E-UTRAN resources for service data transport.
The establishment of E-UTRAN resources is triggered by the MCE. The
release of E-UTRAN resources is triggered by the MCE.

### 6.3.3 M2 link management function

The M2 signalling link management function provides a reliable transfer
of the radio network signalling between eNBs and MCE. The SCTP is used
to support the exchange of M2 Application Protocol (M2AP) signalling
messages between eNBs and MCE.

### 6.3.4 MBMS Service Suspension and Resumption function

The MBMS Service Suspension function allows the MCE to request the eNB
to stop the MBSFN transmission of an ongoing service and release
associated RAN resouces while keeping the MBMS context in the eNB.

The MBMS Service Resumption function allows to resume a previously
suspended MBMS Session.

6.4 MBMS Scheduling Information transfer function
-------------------------------------------------

This function provides multiplexing information if more than one MBMS
service is active. The MCE allocates the amount of resources to
multiplexed services, using service related information. The eNBs accept
the MBMS Scheduling information to synchronize the MCCH transmission in
the MBSFN area.

6.5 MBMS signalling synchronization over M2
-------------------------------------------

The M2 interface shall support timing and synchronization management
functions. MCE transmits the control information to eNBs through M2
interface. Synchronization function guarantees the corresponding MCCH to
be transmitted at all eNBs simultaneously.

6.6 M2 interface reset and error processing function
----------------------------------------------------

These functions allow for managing of signalling associations between
eNB-MCE, surveying M2 interface and recovering from errors.

### 6.6.1 Error indication

This function allows the reporting of general error situations on
signalling exchange.

### 6.6.2 Reset

The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node
setup or after a failure event occurred. The reset function may also be
used to initialize part of the peer entity. This procedure can be used
by both the eNB and MCE.

6.7 MBMS Counting Function
--------------------------

The MBMS Counting function allows the MCE to request the eNB(s) to count
and report per MBSFN area for one or more MBMS services the number of
connected UEs receiving the MBMS Service or interested in receiving it.

7 Functions of M3 interface for MBMS
====================================

7.1 General
-----------

***"M3" Interface: MME -- MCE***

M3 provides the signalling service between MCE and MME that is required
to fulfil the M3AP functions listed in TS 36.444 \[5\]. SCTP (IETF RFC
4960 \[10\]) is used as signaling transport i.e. Point-to-Point
signaling is applied.

7.2 MBMS Session management function
------------------------------------

*MBMS session management function is responsible for starting, updating,
and stopping MBMS sessions.*

### 7.2.1 M3 service context management function

The M3 service context management function supports the establishment of
the necessary E-MBMS service context including E-MBMS E-RAB context, M3
signalling connection ID(s), etc.

The establishment of the M3 service context is initiated by the MME. The
M3 service context management function also supports the release of the
context previously established in the MCE due to service termination.
The release of the M3 context is triggered by the MME.

### 7.2.2 MBMS E-RAB management functions

The E-MBMS E-RAB service management function is responsible for
establishing and releasing E-UTRAN resources for E-MBMS services. The
establishment of E-UTRAN resources is triggered by the MME and requires
respective QoS information to be provided to the MCE. The release of
E-UTRAN resources is triggered by the MME.

7.3 M3 interface reset and error processing function
----------------------------------------------------

These functions allow for managing of signalling associations between
MME-MCE, surveying M3 interface and recovering from errors.

### 7.3.1 Error indication

The error indication function is used by the MCE (respectively the MME)
to indicate to the MME (respectively the MCE) that a logical error has
occurred.

### 7.3.2 Reset

The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node
setup or after a failure event occurred. The reset function may also be
used to initialize part of the peer entity. This procedure can be used
by both the MCE and MME.

7.4 M3 interface setup and configuration update functions
---------------------------------------------------------

In distributed MCE architecture, the M3 Setup and MCE Configuration
Update functions may be used to exchange (respectively update)
application level data used for the operation of the M3 interface after
the TNL association has become operational.

8 Protocol structure for MBMS related interface in E-UTRAN
==========================================================

8.1 General
-----------

MBMS related E-UTRAN interfaces, M1, M2 and M3, *are* layered into a
Radio Network Layer (RNL) and a Transport Network Layer (TNL)*.*

The radio network signalling over M3 consists of the M3 Application
Protocol (M3AP). The M3AP protocol (TS 36.444 \[5\]) consists of
procedures between the EPC and E-UTRAN for MBMS.

The radio network signalling over M2 consists of the M2 Application
Protocol (M2AP). The M2AP protocol (TS 36.443 \[4\]) consists of
procedures between the MCE and eNB for MBMS.

8.2 M1
------

The protocol stack structure for M1 interface is defined in TS 36.445
section 5.1 \[6\].

MBMS user data is distributed from the MBMS GW to eNBs by using IP
multicast through the M1 interface. An eNB joins the IP multicast
address allocated by MBMS GW during the MBMS Session Start procedure (TS
23.246 \[8\]).

8.3 M2
------

The protocol stack structure for M2 interface is defined in TS 36.442
section 4.1.1 \[3\].

8.4 M3
------

The protocol stack structure for M3 interface is defined in TS 36.442
section 5.1.1 \[3\].

9 Other MBMS E-UTRAN Interface Specifications
=============================================

9.1 Layer 1 for interfaces supporting MBMS within E-UTRAN (3GPP TS 36.441)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

TS 36.441 \[2\] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be
used to support the M1, M2 and M3 interface for MBMS in E-UTRAN.

9.2 Signalling Transport for interfaces supporting MBMS within E-UTRAN (3GPP TS 36.442)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TS 36.442 \[3\] specifies the signalling bearers for the M2AP for the M2
interface and the M3AP for the M3 interface.

9.3 E-UTRAN M2 Application Protocol (M2AP) (3GPP TS 36.443)
-----------------------------------------------------------

TS 36.443 \[4\] specifies the M2AP protocol for radio network control
plane signalling over the M2 interface.

9.4 E-UTRAN M3 Application Protocol (M3AP) (3GPP TS 36.444)
-----------------------------------------------------------

TS 36.444 \[5\] specifies the M3AP protocol for radio network control
plane signalling over the M3 interface.

9.5 E-UTRAN M1 Data Transport (3GPP TS 36.445)
----------------------------------------------

TS 36.445 \[6\] specifies the transport bearers for the user plane of
the M1 interface.

9.6 E-UTRAN MBMS synchronisation protocol (3GPP TS 25.446)
----------------------------------------------------------

TS 25.446 \[7\] specifies the MBMS synchronisation protocol over the M1
interface.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
  **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                           **New**
  2009-10                                        Scope, Skeleton                                               0.0.0
  2009-11                                        Update according to the comments from RAN3\#66 meeting        1.0.0
  2009-12                                        Presented for approval at RAN\#46                             2.0.0
  *46*         *RP-091253*                       *Approved at RAN\#46*                                         *9.0.0*
  *47*         *RP-100226*    *0001*   *2*       Incorrect reference for SYNC spec                             *9.1.0*
  *2010-12*                                      Creation of Rel-10 version based on v. 9.1.0                  *10.0.0*
  *SP-49*      *SP-100629*                       Clarification on the use of References (TS 21.801 CR\#0030)   *10.0.1*
  *52*         *RP-110684*    *0003*             Correction of References                                      *10.1.0*
  *52*         *RP-110686*    *0004*   *2*       Completion with Release 10 functions                          *10.1.0*
  *53*         *RP-111197*    *0007*   *1*       Removal the QoS information in the M2 interface               *10.2.0*
  *56*         *RP-120744*    *0008*             Correction of Reset                                           *10.3.0*
  *2012-09*                                      *Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)*                              *11.0.0*
  *58*         *RP-121736*    *0009*   *1*       *Add M3 Setup and Configure Update function*                  *11.1.0*
  *59*         *RP-130211*    *0010*   *1*       *Rapporteur corrections*                                      *11.2.0*
  *2014-09*                                      *Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)*                              *12.0.0*
  *2015-12*                                      *Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)*                              *13.0.0*
  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                            
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                **New version**
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                Promotion to Release 14 without technical change   14.0.0
  2018-09              SA\#81        \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                     15.0.0
  2020-07              SA\#88-e      \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                     **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
