![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#data-link-layer)

[6](#m1-interface-user-plane-protocol)

[6](#general)

[6](#gtp-u)

[7](#udpip)

[7](#diffserv-code-point-marking)

[8](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Symbols 3.3
Abbreviations 4 Data Link Layer 5 M1 interface user plane protocol 5.1
General 5.2 GTP-U 5.3 UDP/IP 5.4 Diffserv code point marking Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards for user data transport
protocols over the E-UTRAN M1 interface.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling
Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".

\[3\] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".

\[4\] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".

\[6\] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".

\[7\] IETF RFC 3376 (2002-10): "Internet Group Management Protocol,
Version 3".

\[8\] IETF RFC3810 (2004-06): "Multicast Listener Discovery Version 2
(MLDv2) for IPv6".

 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**M1:** interface between an eNB and an EPC for MBMS data delivery,
providing an interconnection point between the EUTRAN and the EPC. M1 is
a user plane interface between E-UTRAN and EPC. It is also considered as
a reference point.

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

Symbol format (EW)

\<symbol\> \<Explanation\>

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

DiffServ Differentiated Service

eNB E-UTRAN Node B

EPC Evolved Packet Core

E-UTRA Evolved UTRA

E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN

GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol

IP Internet Protocol

MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service

TCP Transmission Control Protocol

TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier

UDP User Datagram Protocol

4 Data Link Layer
=================

The support of any suitable data link Layer technique - like Ethernet,
etc ...- techniques shall not be prevented.

5 M1 interface user plane protocol
==================================

5.1 General
-----------

The transport layer for MBMS data streams over M1 is an IP based
Transport. The following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over
M1.

Figure 5.1-1: Transport network layer for MBMS data streams over M1

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported
as the transport for MBMS data streams on the M1 interface. The data
link layer is as specified in clause 4.

On IP multicast mode, the transport bearer is identified by the GTP-U
TEID (TS 29.281 \[2\]) and the IP multicast address (source TEID, IP
address of multicast source, IP multicast address).

5.2 GTP-U
---------

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol shall be used over the M1 interface
toward the EPC.

5.3 UDP/IP
----------

The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 \[3\]).

The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 \[2\].

eNB and EPC shall support fragmentation and assembly of GTP packets at
the IP layer.

The eNB and EPC shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 \[5\]) and/or IPv4
(IETF RFC 791 \[6\]).

IP multicast (IETF RFC 3376 \[7\], IETF RFC3810 \[8\]) shall be
supported for point-to-multipoint delivery of MBMS data streams for
multi-cell transmission.

The packet processing function in the EPC shall send MBMS data of a
given MBMS bearer to the TNL IP multicast address associated to that
particular MBMS bearer.

5.4 Diffserv code point marking
-------------------------------

IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 \[4\])
shall be supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv
code points shall be configurable by O&M based on QoS Class Identifier
(QCI) Characteristics and other E-UTRAN traffic parameters. Traffic
categories are implementation-specific and may be determined from the
application parameters.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                           **New**
  *2009-10*                                      *First draft*                                                 *0.0.0*
  *2009-11*                                      *Capture the agreements in RAN3\#66*                          *1.0.0*
  2009-12                                        Presented for approval at RAN\#46                             2.0.0
  46           RP-091255                         Approved at RAN\#46                                           9.0.0
  47           RP-100226      0001     2         Clean up of unicast related text                              9.1.0
  48           RP-100597      0002               Correction and Completion of M1                               9.2.0
  2010-12                                        Created Rel-10 version based on v. 9.2.0                      10.0.0
  SP-49        SP-100629                         Clarification on the use of References (TS 21.801 CR\#0030)   10.0.1
  52           RP-110685      0003     2         Correction of references                                      10.1.0
  2012-09                                        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                11.0.0
  2014-09                                        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                12.0.0
  2015-12                                        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                13.0.0
  ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                            
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                **New version**
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                Promotion to Release 14 without technical change   14.0.0
  2018-09              RP\#81        \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                     15.0.0
  2020-07              SA\#88-e      \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                     **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
