![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#xw-signalling-bearer)

[6](#function-and-protocol-stack)

[6](#data-link-layer)

[6](#__RefHeading___Toc478160022)

[6](#transport-layer)

[7](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations
4 Xw signalling bearer 4.1 Function and protocol stack 5 Data link layer
6 IP layer 7 Transport layer Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards for Signalling Transport to
be used across the Xw interface. The Xw interface is a logical interface
between the eNB and the WT. The present document describes how the Xw-AP
signalling messages are transported over Xw.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (Ipv6)
Specification\".

\[3\] IETF RFC 791(1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".

\[4\] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**Xw**: logical interface between eNB and WT.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

IANA [Internet Assigned Numbers
Authority](https://www.google.fr/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CCYQFjAAahUKEwi_pca5763IAhXHPBoKHQD1BuA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fiana.org%2F&usg=AFQjCNHzBZPEGJOjD-AQkczNpkemFUNElQ) 

IETF Internet Engineering Task Force

PPP Point-to-Point Protocol

RFC Request for Comments

SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol

WT WLAN Termination

4 Xw signalling bearer
======================

4.1 Function and protocol stack
-------------------------------

Xw signalling bearer provides the following functions:

\- Provision of reliable transfer of Xw-AP message over Xw interface.

\- Provision of networking and routeing function;

\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network;

\- Support for flow control and congestion control.

The protocol stack for Xw Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1-1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following sections.

Figure 4.1-1: Xw signalling bearer protocol stack

The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on
top of IP.

5 Data link layer 
=================

The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP,
Ethernet, etc., shall not be prevented.

6 IP layer
==========

The eNB shall support Ipv6 (IETF RFC 2460 \[2\]) and/or Ipv4 (IETF RFC
791 \[3\]).

The IP layer of Xw only supports point-to-point transmission for
delivering Xw-AP message.

The eNB shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in
IETF RFC 2474 \[4\].

7 Transport layer
=================

SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 \[5\]) shall be supported as the transport layer of
Xw signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier assigned by IANA
to be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol XwAP is 59.

SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting
various signalling protocols over IP network.

There shall be only one SCTP association established between one eNB and
WT pair.

The eNB shall establish the SCTP association. The SCTP Destination Port
Number value assigned by IANA to be used for XwAP is 36462.

Within the SCTP association established between an eNB and WT pair;

\- A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole
use of XwAP elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated
signalling.

\- At least one pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the
sole use of XwAP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated
signalling. However a few pairs (i.e. more than one) should be reserved.

\- A single UE-associated signalling shall use one SCTP stream and the
stream should not be changed during the communication of the
UE-associated signalling.

Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing
between two endpoints, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP
addresses. SCTP endpoints shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP
endpoint. For **SCTP endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from WT or
eNB, at any time for an already established SCTP association, which
shall be handled as defined in IETF RFC 4960 \[5\] in sub-clause 5.2.**

The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific
mechanism, initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling
traffic at the source and prioritise certain messages.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- --------------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                
  **Date**             **Meeting**           **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                           **New version**
  2015-10              RAN3\#89bis           R3-152078                                Xw signaling support                                                          0.1.0
  2015-10              RAN3\#89bis           R3-152246                                Xw\_signaling support                                                         0.1.0
  2015-10              RAN3\#89bis           R3-152247                                Draft\_TS36462\_Update                                                        0.1.0
  2015-11              RAN3\#90              R3-152417                                Draft\_TS36462\_Update                                                        0.2.0
  2015-11              RAN3\#90              R3-152774                                Draft\_TS36462\_Update                                                        0.3.0
  2015-11              RAN\#70               RP-151865                                Presentation Specification to TSG RAN\#70                                     1.0.0
  2016-01              RAN3\# Adhoc NB-IOT   R3-160004                                Editorial update: change "Xw signaling support" to "Xw signaling transport"   1.1.0
  2016-01              RAN3\# Adhoc NB-IOT   R3-160123                                Cover page update                                                             1.2.0
  2016-02              RAN3\#91              R3-160155                                Version update                                                                1.3.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71               RP-160518                                MCC clean up and version update                                               2.0.0
  2016-03              RAN\#71                                                        Upgraded to Rel-13 and placed under change control                            13.0.0
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                         Promotion to Release 14 without technical change                              14.0.0
  2018-06              SA\#80                \-          \-       \-        \-        Promotion to Release 15 without technical change                              15.0.0
  2020-07              SA\#88-e              \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                **16.0.0**
  -------------------- --------------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
