![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#general)

[6](#general-aspects)

[6](#xw-user-plane-protocol)

[6](#general-1)

[6](#xw-user-plane-protocol-layer-services)

[7](#services-expected-from-the-xw-transport-network-layer)

[8](#elementary-procedures)

[8](#transfer-of-downlink-user-data)

[8](#successful-operation)

[8](#unsuccessful-operation)

[8](#downlink-data-delivery-status)

[8](#successful-operation-1)

[9](#unsuccessful-operation-1)

[10](#elements-for-the-xw-user-plane-protocol)

[10](#general-2)

[11](#frame-format-for-the-xw-user-plane-protocol)

[11](#dl-user-data-pdu-type-0)

[12](#dl-data-delivery-status-pdu-type-1)

[13](#coding-of-information-elements-in-frames)

[13](#pdu-type)

[13](#spare)

[13](#xw-u-sequence-number)

[13](#lost-packet-report)

[13](#final-frame-indication)

[13](#highest-successfully-delivered-xw-u-sequence-number)

[14](#desired-buffer-size-for-the-e-rab-or-ue)

[14](#minimum-desired-buffer-size-for-the-ue)

[14](#number-of-lost-xw-u-sequence-number-ranges-reported)

[14](#start-of-lost-xw-u-sequence-number-range)

[14](#end-of-lost-xw-u-sequence-number-range)

[14](#padding)

[14](#timers)

[15](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
General 4.1 General aspects 5 Xw user plane protocol 5.1 General 5.2 Xw
user plane protocol layer services 5.3 Services expected from the Xw
Transport Network Layer 5.4 Elementary procedures 5.4.1 Transfer of
Downlink User Data 5.4.1.1 Successful operation 5.4.1.2 Unsuccessful
operation 5.4.2 Downlink Data Delivery Status 5.4.2.1 Successful
operation 5.4.2.2 Unsuccessful operation 5.5 Elements for the Xw user
plane protocol 5.5.1 General 5.5.2 Frame format for the Xw user plane
protocol 5.5.2.1 DL USER DATA (PDU Type 0) 5.5.2.2 DL DATA DELIVERY
STATUS (PDU Type 1) 5.5.3 Coding of information elements in frames
5.5.3.1 PDU Type 5.5.3.2 Spare 5.5.3.3 Xw-U Sequence Number 5.5.3.4 Lost
Packet Report 5.5.3.5 Final Frame Indication 5.5.3.6 Highest
successfully delivered Xw-U Sequence Number 5.5.3.7 Desired buffer size
for the E-RAB or UE 5.5.3.8 Minimum desired buffer size for the UE
5.5.3.9 Number of lost Xw-U Sequence Number ranges reported 5.5.3.10
Start of lost Xw-U Sequence Number range 5.5.3.11 End of lost Xw-U
Sequence Number range 5.5.3.12 Padding 5.5.4 Timers Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the Xw user plane protocol being used
over the Xw interface for LTE/WLAN Aggregation (LWA) and LTE WLAN Radio
Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel (LWIP).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling
Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".

 3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**LTE-WLAN Aggregation**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**LWA bearer**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**LWA PDU:** in LTE-WLAN Aggregation, a PDU with DRB ID generated by
LWAAP entity for transmission over WLAN.

**LWIP bearer**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**LWIP option**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**LWIP PDU:** in LTE WLAN Radio Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel, a
PDU generated by LWIPEP entity for transmission over WLAN

**WLAN Termination**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**Xw**: logical interface between eNB and WT.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

eNB E-UTRAN Node

LWA LTE-WLAN Aggregation

> LWIP LTE WLAN Radio Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel

WT WLAN Termination

4 General
=========

4.1 General aspects
-------------------

The Xw user plane (Xw UP) protocol is located in the User Plane of the
Radio Network layer over the Xw interface.

In LWA option, the Xw UP protocol is used to convey control information
related to the user data flow management of E-RABs. The WT flow control
feedback may support indication of successful transmission towards a UE,
or successful delivery to the UE, as defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

In LWIP option, the Xw UP protocol is used to convey control information
related to the user data flow management of each UE. The WT flow control
feedback may support indication of successful transmission towards a UE,
as defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

Each Xw UP protocol instance is associated to one E-RAB only.

This version of the present document defines the Xw UP protocol in the
context of LTE-WLAN Aggregation and LWIP option, more specifically, for
UE user data setup for LWIP operation or for Xw user data bearers setup
for E-RABs configured with the LWA bearer option.

If configured, Xw UP protocol instances exist at the eNB and the WT
between which the Xw user data bearers are setup.

In this version of the present document, Xw UP protocol data is conveyed
by GTP-U protocol means, more specifically, by means of the "Xw RAN
Container" GTP-U extension header as defined in TS 29.281 \[3\].

5 Xw user plane protocol
========================

5.1 General
-----------

The Xw UP protocol layer is using services of the transport network
layer in order to allow flow control of user data packets transferred
over the Xw interface.

5.2 Xw user plane protocol layer services
-----------------------------------------

For LWA option, the following functions are provided by the Xw UP
protocol:

\- Provision of Xw UP specific sequence number information for user data
transferred from the eNB to the WT for a specific E-RAB configured with
the LWA bearer option;

\- Information of successful transmission towards or in sequence
delivery to the UE of LWA PDUs from WT for user data associated with a
specific E-RAB configured with the LWA bearer option;

\- Information of LWA PDUs that were not transferred towards or not
delivered to the UE;

\- Information of the currently desired buffer size at the WT for
transmitting to the UE user data associated with a specific E-RAB
configured with the LWA bearer option;

\- Information of the currently minimum desired buffer size at the WT
for transmitting to the UE user data associated with all E-RABs
configured with the LWA bearer option.

For LWIP option, the following functions are provided by the Xw UP
protocol:

\- Provision of Xw UP specific sequence number information for user data
transferred from the eNB to the WT for a specific UE configured with the
LWIP bearer option;

\- Information of successful transmission towards the UE of LWIP PDUs
from WT for user data of a UE configured with the LWIP bearer option;

\- Information of LWIP PDUs that were not transferred towards the UE;

\- Information of the currently desired buffer size at the WT for
transmitting to the UE user data for a specific UE configured with the
LWIP bearer option;

\- Information of the currently minimum desired buffer size at the WT
for transmitting to the UE user data for UEs configured with the LWIP
bearer option.

5.3 Services expected from the Xw Transport Network Layer
---------------------------------------------------------

The Xw user plane protocol layer expects the following services from the
Transport Network Layer:

\- Transfer of user data.

5.4 Elementary procedures
-------------------------

### 5.4.1 Transfer of Downlink User Data

#### 5.4.1.1 Successful operation

The purpose of the Transfer of Downlink User Data procedure is to
provide Xw-U specific sequence number information at the transfer of
user data carrying a DL LWA PDU or DL LWIP PDU from the eNB to the WT
via the Xw-U interface.

In LWA option, an Xw user plane instance making use of the Transfer of
Downlink User Data procedure is associated to a single E-RAB only. The
Transfer of Downlink User Data procedure is invoked whenever user data
for that particular E-RAB needs to be sent across the Xw-U interface.

In LWIP option, an Xw user plane instance making use of the Transfer of
Downlink User Data procedure is associated to a single UE only. The
Transfer of Downlink User Data procedure is invoked whenever user data
for that particular UE needs to be sent across the Xw-U interface.

The eNB shall assign consecutive Xw-U sequence numbers to each
transferred Xw-U packet.

The WT shall detect whether an Xw-U packet was lost and memorise the
respective sequence number after it has declared the respective Xw-U
packet as being "lost".

In LWA option, the WT shall transfer the remaining LWA PDUs towards the
UE and memorise the highest Xw-U sequence number of the PDCP PDU that
was successfully transferred towards or delivered to the UE.

NOTE: For LWA option, the Transfer of Downlink User Data procedure and
the associated feedback of lost Xw-U packets assist the eNB in avoiding
PDCP HFN de-synchronisation. If an E-UTRAN deployment decides to not use
the Transfer of Downlink User Data procedure, PDCP HFN synchronization
should be ensured by other means, e.g. UE feedback.

In LWIP option, the WT shall transfer the remaining LWIP PDUs towards
the UE and memorise the highest Xw-U sequence number of the LWIP PDU
that was successfully transferred towards the UE.

Figure 5.4.1.1-1: Successful Transfer of Downlink User Data

#### 5.4.1.2 Unsuccessful operation

Void.

### 5.4.2 Downlink Data Delivery Status

#### 5.4.2.1 Successful operation

The purpose of the Downlink Data Delivery Status procedure is to provide
feedback from the WT to the eNB to allow the eNB to control the downlink
user data flow via the WT for the respective E-RAB in LWA option or for
respective UE in LWIP option. The WT may also transfer uplink user data
for the concerned E-RAB to the eNB together with a DL DATA DELIVERY
STATUS frame within the same GTP-U PDU.

When the WT decides to trigger the Feedback for Downlink Data Delivery
procedure it shall report:

a\) the highest Xw-U sequence number successfully transferred towards or
delivered to the UE among those PDUs received from the eNB;

b\) the desired buffer size in bytes for:

\- for LWA option: the concerned E-RAB;

\- for LWIP option: the concerned UE;

c\) the minimum desired buffer size in bytes for the UE;

d\) the Xw-U packets that were declared as being "lost" by the WT and
have not yet been reported to the eNB within the DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS
frame.

NOTE: If an E-UTRAN deployment has decided not to use the Transfer of
Downlink User Data procedure, d) above is not applicable.

The DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame shall also include an indication
whether the frame is the last DL status report received in the course of
releasing a bearer from the WT. When receiving such indication, if
applicable, the eNB considers that no more UL data is to be expected
from the WT.

The eNB, when receiving the DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame:

\- regards the desired buffer size under b) and c) above as the amount
of data desired from the WT being declared;

\- for the LWA option: from the Xw-U sequence number reported under a)
above within the same frame, as well as from the most recently reported
Xw-U sequence number(s) of all other E-RABs established for the UE;

\- as the momentary desired buffer sizes, independent of buffer sizes
indicated in the past.

\- is allowed to remove the buffered PDCP or LWIP PDUs according to the
feedback of successfully delivered PDCP or LWIP PDUs;

\- decides upon the actions necessary to take for PDCP or LWIP PDUs
reported other than successfully delivered.

After being reported to the eNB, the WT removes the respective Xw-U
sequence numbers.

Figure 5.4.2.1-1: Successful Downlink Data Delivery Status

#### 5.4.2.2 Unsuccessful operation

Void.

5.5 Elements for the Xw user plane protocol
-------------------------------------------

### 5.5.1 General

In the present document the structure of frames are specified by using
figures similar to figure 5.5.1-1.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Bits</td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Number of Octets</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>7</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Field 1</td>
<td>Field 2</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>Octet 1</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Field 3</td>
<td>Field 4</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>Octet 2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Field 4 continue</td>
<td>Spare</td>
<td></td>
<td>Octet 3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Field 6</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><p>Octet 4</p>
<p>Octet 5</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Field 6 continue</td>
<td>Padding Bits</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Future extension</td>
<td>0-m</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Padding</td>
<td>0-3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Figure 5.5.1-1: Example frame format

Unless otherwise indicated, fields which consist of multiple bits within
an octet have the most significant bit located at the higher bit
position (indicated above frame in figure 5.5.1-1). In addition, if a
field spans several octets, most significant bits are located in lower
numbered octets (right of frame in figure 5.5.1-1).

On the Xw interface, the frame is transmitted starting from the lowest
numbered octet. Within each octet, the bits are sent according to
decreasing bit position (bit position 7 first).

Bits labelled \"Spare\" should be set to "0" by the sender and should
not be checked by the receiver.

The header part of the frame is always an integer number of octets. The
payload part is octet aligned (by adding \'Padding Bits\' when needed).
The total size of the frame shall not exceed 1018 octets (see TS 29.281
\[3\]).

The receiver should be able to remove an additional future extension
field that may be present.

Padding octets may be added at the end of the frame, see Padding in
5.5.3.12.

### 5.5.2 Frame format for the Xw user plane protocol

#### 5.5.2.1 DL USER DATA (PDU Type 0)

This frame format is defined to allow the WT to detect lost Xw-U packets
and is associated with the transfer of a Downlink LWA PDU over the Xw-U
interface.

The following shows the respective DL USER DATA frame.

+----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| Bits                 | > Number of Octets |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| 7                    | 6                  | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |   |
+----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| PDU Type (=0)        | spare              | 1 |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| Xw-U Sequence Number | 3                  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| Padding              | 0-3                |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

Figure 5.5.2.1-1: DL USER DATA (PDU Type 0) Format

#### 5.5.2.2 DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS (PDU Type 1)

This frame format is defined to transfer feedback to allow the receiving
eNB to control the downlink user data flow via the WT.

+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| Bits       | > Number   |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
|            | > of       |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
|            | > Octets   |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| 7          | 6          | 5          | 4          | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| PDU Type   | Spare      | Final      | Lost       | 1 |   |   |   |   |
| (=1)       |            | Frame Ind. | Packet     |   |   |   |   |   |
|            |            |            | Report     |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| Highest    | 3          |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| su         |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| ccessfully |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| delivered  |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Xw-U       |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Sequence   |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Number     |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| Desired    | 4          |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| buffer     |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| size for   |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| the E-RAB  |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| or UE      |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| Minimum    | 4          |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| desired    |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| buffer     |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| size for   |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| the UE     |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| Number of  | 1          |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| lost Xw-U  |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Sequence   |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Number     |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| ranges     |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| reported   |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| Start of   | 6\*        |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| lost Xw-U  | (Number of |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Sequence   | reported   |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Number     | lost Xw-u  |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| range      | SN ranges) |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| End of     |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| lost Xw-U  |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Sequence   |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| Number     |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
| range      |            |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
| Padding    | 0-3        |            |            |   |   |   |   |   |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+

Figure 5.5.2.2-1: DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS (PDU Type 1) Format

### 5.5.3 Coding of information elements in frames

#### 5.5.3.1 PDU Type

**Description:** The PDU Type indicates the structure of the Xw UP
frame. The field takes the value of the PDU Type it identifies; i.e. "0"
for PDU Type 0. The PDU type is in bit 4 to bit 7 in the first octet of
the frame.

**Value range:** {0=DL USER DATA, 1=DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS,
2-15=reserved for future PDU type extensions}

**Field length:** 4 bits

#### 5.5.3.2 Spare

**Description:** The spare field is set to "0" by the sender and should
not be interpreted by the receiver. This field is reserved for later
versions.

**Value range:** (0--2^n^-1).

**Field Length:** n bits.

#### 5.5.3.3 Xw-U Sequence Number

**Description:** This parameter indicates the Xw-U sequence number as
assigned by the respective eNB.

**Value range:** {0..2^24^-1}.

NOTE: For LWA PDUs there should be one-to-one mapping between PDCP SN
and Xw-U SN.

**Field length:** 3 octets.

#### 5.5.3.4 Lost Packet Report

**Description:** This parameter indicates the presence of a list of lost
Xw-U packets in the respective Xw UP frame.

**Value range:** {0=Lost Frame List not present, 1=Lost Frame List
present}.

**Field length:** 1 bit.

#### 5.5.3.5 Final Frame Indication

**Description:** This parameter indicates whether the frame is the last
DL status report as described in clause 5.4.2.1.

**Value range:** {0=Frame is not final, 1= Frame is final}.

**Field length:** 1 bit.

#### 5.5.3.6 Highest successfully delivered Xw-U Sequence Number

**Description:**

In case of the LWA option, this parameter indicates feedback about the
in-sequence delivery status of LWA PDUs at the WT towards, or to the UE.

In case of the LWIP option, this parameter indicates feedback about the
in-sequence transmission status of LWIP PDUs at the WT towards the UE.

**Value range:** {0..2^24^-1}.

**Field length:** 3 octets.

#### 5.5.3.7 Desired buffer size for the E-RAB or UE

**Description:**

In case of the LWA option, this parameter indicates the desired buffer
size for the concerned E-RAB as specified in clause 5.4.2.1.

In case of the LWIP option, this parameter indicates the desired buffer
size for the concerned UE as specified in clause 5.4.2.1.

**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}.

**Field length:** 4 octets.

#### 5.5.3.8 Minimum desired buffer size for the UE

**Description:**

In case of the LWA option, this parameter indicates the minimum desired
buffer size for all E-RABs established for the UE as specified in clause
5.4.2.1.

In case of the LWIP option, this parameter indicates the minimum desired
buffer size for the UE as specified in clause 5.4.2.1.

**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}.

**Field length:** 4 octets.

#### 5.5.3.9 Number of lost Xw-U Sequence Number ranges reported

**Description:** This parameter indicates the number of Xw-U Sequence
Number ranges reported to be lost.

**Value range:** {1.. 162}.

**Field length:** 1 octet.

#### 5.5.3.10 Start of lost Xw-U Sequence Number range

**Description:** This parameter indicates the start of an Xw-U sequence
number range.

**Value range:** {0..2^18^-1}.

**Field length:** 3 octets.

#### 5.5.3.11 End of lost Xw-U Sequence Number range

**Description:** This parameter indicates the end of an Xw-U sequence
number range.

**Value range:** {0..2^18^-1}.

**Field length:** 3 octets.

#### 5.5.3.12 Padding

**Description:** The padding is included at the end of the frame to
ensure that the NR user plane protocol pdu length (including padding and
the future extension) is (n\*4-- 2) octets, where n is a positive
integer . If there is any future extension, the padding should be added
after the future extensions.

**Field Length:** 0--3.

### 5.5.4 Timers

Not applicable.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- -------------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                         
  Date                 Meeting        TDoc.       CR     Rev   Cat   Subject/Comment                                                                         New Version
  2015-08              RAN3\#89       R3-151597                      Draft skeleton TR                                                                       0.0.1
  2015-09              RAN3\#890bis   R3-152214                      TR number update                                                                        0.0.2
  2015-11              RAN3\#90       R3-152420                      TR number update                                                                        0.1.0
  2015-11              RAN3\#90       R3-152907                      Agreements from RAN3\#90                                                                0.2.0
  2016-01              RAN3\#AH       R3-160007                      TR number update                                                                        1.1.0
  2016-02              RAN3\#AH       R3-160150                      Agreements from RAN3\#AH                                                                1.2.0
  2016-02              RAN3\#91       R3-160158                      TR number update                                                                        1.3.0
  2016-02              RAN\#91        R3-160546                      Agreements from RAN3\#91                                                                1.5.0
  2016-03              71             RP-160437                      MCC cleanup and submission for approval                                                 2.0.0
  2016-03              71                                            Upgraded to Rel-13 and placed under change control                                      13.0.0
  2016-06              72             RP-161046   1      1     F     TS 36.465 correction for LWA                                                            13.1.0
  2016-06              72             RP-161046   3      2     F     Correction to the description of the Xw UP protocol services and Xw-U Sequence Number   13.1.0
  2016-06              72             RP-161046   4      1     F     Correction to the range of the Xw-U Sequence Number                                     13.1.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75        RP-170535   0011         B     Enabling uplink data bearers                                                            14.0.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75        RP-170543   0012   1     B     Enabling LWIP support over Xw                                                           14.0.0
  2017-09              RP-77          RP-171982   0017   1     A     Change of the name of the GTP container                                                 14.1.0
  2018-03              RP-79          RP-180473   0018   1     F     Avoiding exceeding the max size of the NR RAN Container                                 14.2.0
  2018-06              RP-80          RP-181245   0019   1     F     Enabling future extendability of the Xn RAN Container                                   14.3.0
  2018-06              \-             \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                                          **15.0.0**
  2020-07              SA\#88-e       \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                          **16.0.0**
  -------------------- -------------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
