![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#data-link-layer)

[6](#xw-interface-user-plane-protocol)

[6](#general)

[6](#gtp-u)

[6](#udpip)

[7](#diffserv-code-point-marking)

[7](#lte-wlan-aggregation)

[7](#lte-wlan-radio-level-integration-with-ipsec-tunnel)

[8](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 Data
link layer 5 Xw interface user plane protocol 5.1 General 5.2 GTP-U 5.3
UDP/IP 5.4 Diffserv code point marking 5.5 LTE-WLAN Aggregation 5.6 LTE
WLAN Radio Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel Annex A (informative):
Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards for user data transport
protocols and related signalling protocols to establish user plane
transport bearers over the Xw interface for LTE/WLAN Aggregation (LWA)
and enhanced LTE WLAN Radio Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel (eLWIP).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 36.300: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 36.465: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN) and Wireless LAN (WLAN); Xw interface user plane
protocol".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**LTE-WLAN Aggregation**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**LWA bearer**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**LWIP bearer**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**LWIP Operation**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

**Xw**: logical interface between eNB and WT.

**WLAN Termination**: Defined in TS 36.300 \[2\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

eNB E-UTRAN Node

LWA LTE-WLAN Aggregation

> LWIP LTE WLAN Radio Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel

WT WLAN Termination

4 Data link layer
=================

Any data link protocol that fulfils the requirements toward the upper
layer may be used.

5 Xw interface user plane protocol
==================================

5.1 General
-----------

The transport layer for data streams over Xw is an IP based Transport.
The following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over Xw.

Figure 5.1: Transport network layer for data streams over Xw

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported
as the transport for data streams on the Xw interface. The data link
layer is as specified in clause 4.

For LWA bearers, there may be one UL data stream and there may be one DL
data stream per E-RAB at the Xw interface. For LWIP bearers, there may
be one UL data stream and there may be one DL data stream per UE at the
Xw interface.

\- The DL data stream is used for DL user data forwarding from the eNB
to the WT.

\- The UL data stream is used for carrying the UL flow control feedback
(if flow control is supported) and for UL user data forwarding from the
WT to the eNB.

Each data stream is carried on a dedicated transport bearer.

If supported, the WT may use the DRB Identifier in the LWA PDU header of
the UL data stream to identify the dedicated UL transport bearer.

The identity of a transport bearer signalled in the RNL control plane
consists of the IP address and the TEID of the corresponding GTP tunnel,
allocated by the target node (see TS 29.281 \[2\]).

5.2 GTP-U
---------

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol shall be used over the Xw interface
between eNB and WT.

5.3 UDP/IP
----------

The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 \[3\]).

The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 \[2\].

The eNB and the WT over the Xw interface shall support fragmentation and
assembly of GTP packets at the IP layer.

The eNB and the WT shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 \[5\]) and/or Ipv4
(IETF RFC 791 \[6\]).

**LWA:**

There may be one or several IP addresses in both the eNB and the WT. The
packet processing function in the source eNB shall send downstream
packets corresponding toa given **E-RAB** to the target WT IP address
(received in XwAP) associated to the DL transport bearer of that
particular **E-RAB**. The packet processing function in the source WT
shall send upstream packets corresponding to a given E-RAB to the target
eNB IP address (received in XwAP) associated to the UL transport bearer
of that particular E-RAB or the E-RAB with the lowest E-RAB ID.

**LWIP:**

There may be one or several IP addresses in both the eNB and the
LWIP-SeGW. The packet processing function in the source eNB shall send
downstream packets corresponding to a given **LWIP bearer** to the
target LWIP-SeGW IP address (received in XwAP) associated to the DL
transport bearer of that particular **GTP-U TEID**. The packet
processing function in the source LWIP-SeGW shall send upstream packets
corresponding to a given UE to the target eNB IP address (received in
XwAP) associated to the UL transport bearer of that particular GTP-U
TEID.

The Transport Layer Address signalled in XwAP messages is a bit string
of either

a\) 32 bits in case of Ipv4 address according to IETF RFC 791 \[6\]; or

b\) 128 bits in case of Ipv6 address according to IETF RFC 2460 \[5\].

5.4 Diffserv code point marking
-------------------------------

IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 \[4\])
shall be supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv
code points shall be configurable by O&M for based on QoS Class
Identifier (QCI)/ Label Characteristics and others E-UTRAN traffic
parameters. Traffic categories are implementation-specific and may be
determined from the application parameters.

5.5 LTE-WLAN Aggregation
------------------------

For the LWA bearer option

\- the GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be
supported as the transport for the downlink and uplink user data streams
of LWA PDUs and the uplink flow control feedback stream on the Xw
interface. The GTP-U PDU may include a Xw RAN Container with flow
control information as specified in TS 36.465 \[3\] which is carried in
the GTP-U extension header. The transport bearer is identified by the
GTP-U TEID (TS 29.281 \[2\]) and the IP address of the eNB and WT
respectively. There is one UL data stream and there is one DL data
stream per E-RAB at the Xw interface:

\- The DL data stream is used for DL user data transmission from the eNB
to the WT.

\- The UL data stream is used for UL user data transmission and UL flow
control feedback transmission from the WT to the eNB.

\- the packet processing function in the eNB shall send downstream
packets corresponding to a given E-RAB to the WT IP address (received in
XwAP) associated to the DL transport bearer of that particular E-RAB.
The packet processing function in the WT shall send upstream packets
corresponding to a given E-RAB to the eNB IP address (received in XwAP)
associated to the UL transport bearer of that particular E-RAB or the
E-RAB with the lowest E-RAB ID.

\- in addition, user data forwarding (from WT to eNB ) may be performed
by eNB providing another GTP-U TEID to receive the DL data forwarded by
the WT.

5.6 LTE WLAN Radio Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel
------------------------------------------------------

For the LWIP bearer option

\- the GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be
supported as the transport for the downlink and uplink user data streams
of LWIP PDUs and the uplink flow control feedback stream on the Xw
interface. The GTP-U PDU includes a Xw RAN Container with flow control
information as specified in TS 36.465 \[3\] which is carried in the
GTP-U extension header. The transport bearer is identified by the GTP-U
TEID (TS 29.281 \[2\]) and the IP address of the eNB and LWIP-SeGW
respectively. There is one UL data stream and there is one DL data
stream per UE at the Xw interface:

\- The DL data stream is used for DL user data transmission from the eNB
to the LWIP-SeGW.

\- The UL data stream is used for UL user data transmission and UL flow
control feedback transmission from the LWIP-SeGW to the eNB.

\- the packet processing function in the eNB shall send downstream
packets corresponding to all LWIP bearers to the LWIP-SeGW IP address
(received in XwAP) associated to the DL transport bearer of that
particular GTP-U TEID. The packet processing function in the LWIP-SeGW
shall send upstream packets corresponding to all LWIP bearers to the eNB
IP address (received in XwAP) associated to the UL transport bearer of
that particular GTP-U TEID.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- -------------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- ---------------------------------------------------- -------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                      
  Date                 Meeting        TDoc.       CR     Rev   Cat   Subject/Comment                                      New version
  2015-08              RAN3\#89       R3-151596                      Draft skeleton TR                                    0.0.1
  2015-09              RAN3\#89-bis   R3-152213                      TR number update                                     0.0.2
  2015-11              RAN3\#90       R3-152419                      TR number update                                     0.1.0
  2015-11              RAN3\#90       R3-152906                      Agreements from RAN3\#90                             0.2.0
  2016-01              RAN3\#AH       R3-160006                      TR number update                                     1.1.0
  2016-02              RAN3\#AH       R3-160149                      Agreements from RAN3\#AH                             1.2.0
  2016-02              RAN3\#91       R3-160157                      TR number update                                     1.3.0
  2016-02              RAN3\#91       R3-160456                      Agreements from RAN3\#91                             1.4.0
  2016-03              71             RP-160436                      MCC cleanup, presented for approval in RAN\#71       2.0.0
  2016-03              71                                            Upgraded to Rel-13 and placed under change control   13.0.0
  2016-06              72             RP-161046   1      1     F     Rapporteur updates -- miscellaneous corrections      13.1.0
  2016-09              73             RP-161550   5            F     Correction of the LWA PDU type                       13.2.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75        RP-170535   0009         B     Enabling uplink data bearers                         14.0.0
  2017-03              RAN\#75        RP-170543   0010   1     B     Enabling LWIP support over Xw                        14.0.0
  2017-06              RAN\#76        RP-171324   011    \-    F     Clarification of the use of the RAN Container        14.1.0
  2017-09              RP-77          RP-171982   0013   1     A     Change of the name of the GTP container              14.2.0
  2018-06              SA\#80         \-          \-     \-    \-    Promotion to Release 15 without technical change     15.0.0
  2020-07              SA\#88-e       \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                       **16.0.0**
  -------------------- -------------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- ---------------------------------------------------- -------------
