![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[3](#foreword)

[3](#introduction)

[4](#scope)

[4](#references)

[4](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[4](#general-principles)

[4](#to-7-void)

[4](#annex-a-to-c-void)

[5](#annex-d-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 4 General Principles 5 to 7 Void
Annex A to C: Void Annex D: Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction 
============

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies a general method used to derive Test
Tolerances for Radio Resource Management tests, and establishes a system
for relating the Test Tolerances to the measurement uncertainties of the
Test System.

The test cases which have been analysed to determine Test Tolerances are
included as .zip files.

The present document is applicable from Release 8 up to the release
indicated on the front page of the present Terminal conformance
specifications.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document in the same Release as the present document unless the context
in which the reference is made suggests a different Release is relevant
(information on the applicable release in a particular context can be
found in e.g. test case title, description or applicability, message
description or content).

\[1\] to \[8\] (void)

> \[9\] 3GPP TR 36.903 Release 17: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio
> Access (E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
> (E-UTRAN); Derivation of test tolerances for Radio Resource Management
> (RRM) conformance tests\"

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

Void

4 General Principles
====================

The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TR 36.903
Release 17 \[9\].

5 to 7 Void
===========

######## Annex A to C: Void

######## Annex D: Change History

  --------- ---------- ----------- ------ ----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  Date      TSG \#     TSG Doc.    CR     Rev   Subject/Comment                                                                                                                                                         Old       New
  2010-02   RAN5\#46   R5-072185   \-     \-    TR 36.903 Skeleton proposed for RAN5\#46                                                                                                                                \-        0.0.1
  2010-06   \-         \-          \-     \-    TR 36.903 update proposed                                                                                                                                               0.0.1     0.0.x
  2010-08   RAN5\#48   \-          \-     \-    TR 36.903 update proposed                                                                                                                                               0.0.x     0.0.2
  2010-08   RAN5\#48   R5-104409   \-     \-    TR 36.903 update proposed including all docs agreed on RAN5\#48                                                                                                         0.0.2     0.1.0
  2010-09   \-         \-          \-     \-    Small editorial corrections                                                                                                                                             0.1.0     0.1.1
  2010-09   RAN5\#49   R5-106802   \-     \-    TR 36.903 update proposed including all docs agreed on RAN5\#49                                                                                                         0.1.1     1.0.0
  2010-12   RAN5\#50   R5-101182   \-     \-    TR 36.903 v1.0.0 on Derivation of test tolerances for multi-cell RRM conformance tests (Approval)                                                                       1.0.0     8.0.0
  2010-12   RAN5\#50   \-          \-     \-    Raised to v9.0.0 with no change                                                                                                                                         8.0.0     9.0.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-113225   0001   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test case 4.3.1.3                                                                                                                       9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-113227   0002   \-    RRM Test Tools agreed at RAN5\#50 in TR 36.903                                                                                                                          9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-113228   0003   \-    RRM Test Tools agreed at RAN5\#51 in TR 36.903                                                                                                                          9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-113248   0004   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for the inter RAT E-UTRAN handover test cases 5.2.1 and 5.2.2                                                                               9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114008   0005   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN to UTRA TDD handover test case 5.2.4                                                                                            9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114010   0006   \-    RRM Test Tools Updates agreed at RAN5\#50 for TR 36.903                                                                                                                 9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114011   0007   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for Test cases 8.x                                                                                                                       9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114012   0008   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for TS36.521-3 FDD SON ANR test case 8.5.2                                                                                                      9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114015   0009   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN FDD/TDD - UTRA FDD CPICH Ec/No absolute measurement accuracy test cases                                                         9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114017   0010   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN FDD- UTRAN TDD event triggered reporting under fading propagation conditions                                                    9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114018   0011   \-    Update analysis for TC 8.3.3+8.4.3 in 36.903                                                                                                                            9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114020   0012   \-    Add Uncertainties and TT analysis for TC 4.3.4.3 in 36.903                                                                                                              9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-09   RAN5\#52   R5-114058   0013   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN to UTRA Cell Re-Selection test cases 4.3.4.1                                                                                    9.0.0     9.1.0
  2011-12   RAN5\#53   R5-115149   0014   \-    Add Inter-RAT test case groups in 36.903                                                                                                                                9.1.0     9.2.0
  2011-12   RAN5\#53   R5-115825   0015   \-    Test tolerances methodology for UE measurement procedures Inter-RAT event triggered reporting when DRX is used under fading test case 8.5.3 in TR 36.903                9.1.0     9.2.0
  2011-12   RAN5\#53   R5-115188   0016   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test case 8.11.3                                                                                                                        9.1.0     9.2.0
  2011-12   RAN5\#53   R5-115201   0017   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for TS36.521-3 TDD SON ANR test case 8.7.3                                                                                                      9.1.0     9.2.0
  2011-12   RAN5\#53   R5-115402   0018   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test case 4.3.3                                                                                                                         9.1.0     9.2.0
  2011-12   RAN5\#53   R5-115788   0019   \-    GCF Priority 2 - Add RRM Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test case 8.11.1 and 8.11.2                                                                                    9.1.0     9.2.0
  2011-12   RAN5\#53   R5-115826   0020   \-    Update of Test Tolerances analysis for ch.9 test cases                                                                                                                  9.1.0     9.2.0
  2011-12   RAN5\#53   R5-115898   0021   \-    Add test tolerance analysis for 6.1.3 and 6.1.4                                                                                                                         9.1.0     9.2.0
  2012-03   RAN5\#54   R5-120108   0022   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for TS36.521-3 TDD new CGI test cases 8.2.3 and 8.2.4                                                                                           9.2.0     9.3.0
  2012-03   RAN5\#54   R5-120123   0023   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for TS36.521-3 TDD Inter-frequency new CGI test cases 8.4.4 and 8.4.5.                                                                          9.2.0     9.3.0
  2012-03   RAN5\#54   R5-120246   0024   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 9.1.4.1 and 9.1.4.2                                                                                                   9.2.0     9.3.0
  2012-03   RAN5\#54   R5-120247   0025   \-    Update RRM Test Tolerance analysis for TDD PRACH Test cases 6.2.3+6.2.4                                                                                                 9.2.0     9.3.0
  2012-03   RAN5\#54   R5-120248   0026   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test case 8.11.4                                                                                                                    9.2.0     9.3.0
  2012-03   RAN5\#54   R5-120906   0027   \-    Add TT Analysis for TC 4.5.1.1 in 36.903                                                                                                                                9.2.0     9.3.0
  2012-03   RAN5\#54   R5-120916   0028   \-    Add TT Analysis for TC 5.3.1 in 36.903                                                                                                                                  9.2.0     9.3.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121246   0029   \-    Grouping of positioning test cases in TR36.903                                                                                                                          9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121606   0030   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 4.2.4 and 4.2.5                                                                                                          9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121608   0031   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 5.1.7 and 5.1.8                                                                                                          9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121610   0032   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 8.14.1                                                                                                                   9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121612   0033   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 8.15.1                                                                                                                   9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121614   0034   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test case 9.1.5.1                                                                                                                   9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121616   0035   \-    Addition of Test Tolerance analysis for FDD - TDD Inter Frequency Relative Accuracy of RSRP test case 9.1.5.2                                                           9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121926   0036   \-    TT 9.6.2 analysis for 36.903                                                                                                                                            9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   R5-121928   0037   \-    Resubmission of TT Analysis for TC 4.5.1.1 in 36.903                                                                                                                    9.3.0     9.4.0
  2012-06   RAN5\#55   \-          \-     \-    Added two missing TT Analysis zip files                                                                                                                                 9.4.0     9.4.1
  2012-09   RAN5\#56   R5-123213   0045   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 4.2.7 and 4.2.8                                                                                                  9.4.1     9.5.0
  2012-09   RAN5\#56   R5-123921   0038   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test case 9.1.2.1                                                                                                                9.4.1     9.5.0
  2012-09   RAN5\#56   R5-123922   0039   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test case 9.1.2.2                                                                                                                9.4.1     9.5.0
  2012-09   RAN5\#56   R5-123923   0040   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 9.1.3.1+9.1.4.1                                                                                                       9.4.1     9.5.0
  2012-09   RAN5\#56   R5-123924   0041   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 9.1.3.2+9.1.4.2                                                                                                       9.4.1     9.5.0
  2012-09   RAN5\#56   R5-123925   0042   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 9.2.1.1+9.2.2.1                                                                                                       9.4.1     9.5.0
  2012-09   RAN5\#56   R5-123926   0043   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 9.2.3.1+9.2.4.1                                                                                                       9.4.1     9.5.0
  2012-09   RAN5\#56   R5-123927   0044   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 9.2.3.2+9.2.4.2                                                                                                       9.4.1     9.5.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125558   0048   \-    Addition of uncertainties and test tolerance definition and analysis for TC 9.2.4A.1                                                                                    9.5.0     9.6.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125815   0049   \-    Addition of uncertainties and test tolerance definition and analysis for TC 4.5.2.1                                                                                     9.5.0     9.6.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125816   0050   \-    Addition of uncertainties and test tolerance definition and analysis for TC 5.3.5                                                                                       9.5.0     9.6.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125817   0051   \-    Addition of uncertainties and test tolerance definition and analysis for TC 8.14.2                                                                                      9.5.0     9.6.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125818   0052   \-    Addition of uncertainties and test tolerance definition and analysis for TC 8.15.2                                                                                      9.5.0     9.6.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125819   0053   \-    Addition of uncertainties and test tolerance definition and analysis for TC 8.14.3 and 8.15.3                                                                           9.5.0     9.6.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125820   0054   \-    Addition of uncertainties and test tolerance definition and analysis for TC 9.2.4A.2                                                                                    9.5.0     9.6.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125356   0046   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 8.16.1 and 8.16.2                                                                                                9.6.0     10.0.0
  2012-12   RAN5\#57   R5-125362   0047   \-    Update TS 36.521-3 Test cases 5.2.3+5.2.6 Test Tolerance analyses for \>3GHz                                                                                            9.6.0     10.0.0
  2013-03   RAN5\#58   R5-130055   0055   \-    Update TS 36.521-3 Test cases 7.1.1+7.1.2 Test Tolerance analyses                                                                                                       10.0.0    10.1.0
  2013-03   RAN5\#58   R5-130057   0056   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.6.1 and 9.1.7.1                                                                                              10.0.0    10.1.0
  2013-03   RAN5\#58   R5-130059   0057   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.6.2 and 9.1.7.2                                                                                              10.0.0    10.1.0
  2013-03   RAN5\#58   R5-130061   0058   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.5.1 and 9.2.6.1                                                                                              10.0.0    10.1.0
  2013-03   RAN5\#58   R5-130063   0059   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.5.2 and 9.2.6.2                                                                                              10.0.0    10.1.0
  2013-03   RAN5\#58   R5-130393   0061   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TCs 6.3.1+6.3.9                                                                                                                 10.0.0    10.1.0
  2013-03   RAN5\#58   R5-130394   0062   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TCs 6.3.3+6.3.10                                                                                                                10.0.0    10.1.0
  2013-03   RAN5\#58   R5-130933   0063   \-    Addition of uncertainties and test tolerance definition and analysis for TC 8.16.3 and TC 8.16.4                                                                        10.0.0    10.1.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131179   0077   \-    RRM: Add test tolerance analyses for TCs 8.1.5 and 8.1.6                                                                                                                10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131181   0065   \-    RRM: Add test tolerance analyses for TCs 8.3.4 and 8.3.5                                                                                                                10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131279   0066   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.7.1, 9.2.8.1                                                                                                 10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131285   0067   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 8.11.5, 8.11.6                                                                                                   10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131287   0068   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.5.1, 9.5.2                                                                                                     10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131290   0069   \-    Remove superseded analysis zip files                                                                                                                                    10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131400   0070   \-    Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 test cases 5.2.4 and 5.2.5                                                                                                      10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131401   0071   \-    Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 test case 8.5.4                                                                                                                 10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131402   0072   \-    Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 test cases 8.7.4 and 8.9.2                                                                                                      10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131461   0073   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TCs 6.3.2+6.3.12                                                                                                                10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131464   0074   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TCs 6.3.4+6.3.11                                                                                                                10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-06   RAN5\#59   R5-131467   0075   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TCs 6.3.5+6.3.6+6.3.7+6.3.8                                                                                                     10.1.0    10.2.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133100   0078   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.8.1+9.1.9.1                                                                                                  10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133102   0079   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.8.2+9.1.9.2                                                                                                  10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133104   0080   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.3.x and 9.1.4.x                                                                                           10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133106   0081   \-    Test Tolerances update for eICIC absolute RSRQ Test cases 9.2.7.1+9.2.8.1                                                                                               10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133219   0082   \-    RRM: Test tolerance analyses for TCs 9.6.1 and 9.6.2                                                                                                                    10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133349   0083   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.1.1 and 9.1.2.1                                                                                           10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133374   0084   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 9.1.1 and 9.1.2                                                                                                  10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133376   0085   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 9.1.3 and 9.1.4                                                                                                  10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-09   RAN5\#60   R5-133843   0086   \-    LBS Perf: Test tolerance analyses for TCs 8.1.1 and 8.1.2                                                                                                               10.2.0    10.3.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134144   0087   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.12.1 and 9.1.13.1                                                                                            10.3.0    10.4.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134146   0088   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.12.2 and 9.1.13.2                                                                                            10.3.0    10.4.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134148   0089   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.11.1 and 9.2.12.1                                                                                            10.3.0    10.4.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134150   0090   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.11.2 and 9.2.12.2                                                                                            10.3.0    10.4.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134220   0091   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.20.3                                                                                                            10.3.0    10.4.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134222   0092   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.9.1 and 9.2.10.1                                                                                             10.3.0    10.4.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135015   0093   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 9.2.1 and 9.2.2                                                                                                  10.3.0    10.4.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135017   0094   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 9.2.4 and 9.2.5                                                                                                  10.3.0    10.4.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   \-          \-     \-    Upgraded to Rel-11 with no change                                                                                                                                       10.4.0    11.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134215   0108   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.17.1                                                                                                          11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134217   0109   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.2.17.1 and update 9.2.1.1+9.2.2.1                                                                               11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-134611   0102   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 7.2.3                                                                                                             11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135050   0095   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 4.2.9 and update 4.2.1+4.2.2                                                                                      11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135051   0096   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 4.3.1.4 and update 4.3.1.2+4.3.3                                                                                  11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135052   0097   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 5.1.9 and update 5.1.1+5.1.2                                                                                      11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135053   0098   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 5.2.11 and update 5.2.1+5.2.2                                                                                     11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135054   0099   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 6.1.5 and update 6.1.1+6.1.3                                                                                      11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135055   0100   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 6.2.5                                                                                                             11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135056   0101   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 6.2.6                                                                                                             11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135058   0103   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 7.3.23                                                                                                            11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135059   0104   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 7.3.25                                                                                                            11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135060   0105   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.1.9                                                                                                             11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135061   0106   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.1.10                                                                                                            11.0.0    12.0.0
  2013-12   RAN5\#61   R5-135062   0107   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.5.7                                                                                                             11.0.0    12.0.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140083   0110   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 8.20.1 and 8.20.2                                                                                                12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140233   0113   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.16.2 and update 9.1.1.2+9.1.2.2                                                                               12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140235   0114   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.18.1 and update 9.2.3.1+9.2.4.1                                                                               12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140237   0115   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.18.2 and update 9.2.3.2+9.2.4.2                                                                               12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140239   0116   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.20.4                                                                                                            12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140288   0118   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TC 7.3.24                                                                                                                       12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140292   0119   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TC 9.1.17.2                                                                                                                     12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140294   0120   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TC 9.3.3                                                                                                                        12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140296   0121   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TC 9.4.3                                                                                                                        12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-140864   0122   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TC 9.1.16.1                                                                                                                     12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-03   RAN5\#62   R5-141051   0117   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for TC 7.1.5                                                                                                                        12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-142373   0123   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.8.1+9.1.9.1                                                                                               12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-142377   0124   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.8.2+9.1.9.2                                                                                               12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-142381   0125   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.7.1+9.2.8.1                                                                                               12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-142545   0126   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 8.1.7 and 8.2.5                                                                                                  12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-142552   0127   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 7.3.11,7.3.12,7.3.15 and 7.3.16                                                                                  12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-142712   0128   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for eICIC RRM TC 9.1.10.1, 9.1.11.1                                                                                                             12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-142751   0129   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.9.1+9.2.10.1                                                                                              12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-142763   0130   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for 36.521-3 test case 9.1.10.2, 9.1.11.2                                                                                           12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-06   RAN5\#63   R5-143021   0131   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 7.3.9,7.3.10,7.3.13 and 7.3.14                                                                                   12.1.0    12.2.0
  2014-09   RAN5\#64   R5-144126   0132   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 8.16.5 and 8.16.6                                                                                                12.2.0    12.3.0
  2014-09   RAN5\#64   R5-144128   0133   \-    Add Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 8.16.7 and 8.16.8                                                                                                12.2.0    12.3.0
  2014-09   RAN5\#64   R5-144144   0134   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.3 and 10.4                                                                                                    12.2.0    12.3.0
  2014-09   RAN5\#64   R5-144146   0135   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.3A and 10.4A                                                                                                  12.2.0    12.3.0
  2014-09   RAN5\#64   R5-144290   0136   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.3.6                                                                                                             12.2.0    12.3.0
  2014-09   RAN5\#64   R5-144292   0137   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.5.6                                                                                                             12.2.0    12.3.0
  2014-09   RAN5\#64   R5-144294   0138   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 8.3.3+8.4.3                                                                                                   12.2.0    12.3.0
  2014-09   RAN5\#64   R5-144834   0139   \-    Addition of test tolerance analysis for 36.521-3 test case 9.4.1, 9.4.2 and 9.4.3                                                                                       12.2.0    12.3.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145167   0140   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 9.1.1 and 9.1.2                                                                                               12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145168   0141   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 9.2.1 and 9.2.2                                                                                               12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145298   0142   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.5.3                                                                                                          12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145300   0143   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for feICIC RSRQ absolute accuracy Test cases                                                                                                12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145302   0144   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.21.1 and 9.2.22.1                                                                                            12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145304   0145   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.2.21.2 and 9.2.22.2                                                                                            12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145321   0146   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 feICIC test cases 9.1.14.1 and 9.1.15.1                                                                                     12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145323   0147   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 feICIC test cases 9.1.14.2 and 9.1.15.2                                                                                     12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145828   0148   \-    Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 37.571-1 TC 8.1.5+8.1.6                                                                                                                  12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145829   0149   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 feICIC test cases 7.3.17 and 7.3.18                                                                                         12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145830   0150   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 feICIC test cases 7.3.19, 7.3.20, 7.3.21 and 7.3.22                                                                         12.3.0    12.4.0
  2014-12   RAN5\#65   R5-145924   0151   \-    Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 8.1.8+8.2.6                                                                                                                  12.3.0    12.4.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150078   0152   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.1 and 10.2                                                                                                    12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150079   0153   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.1A and 10.2A                                                                                                  12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150080   0154   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.1B and 10.2B                                                                                                  12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150081   0155   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.1C and 10.2C                                                                                                  12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150083   0156   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.3B and 10.4B                                                                                                  12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150084   0157   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.3C and 10.4C                                                                                                  12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150219   0158   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 4.3.1.3                                                                                                               12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150221   0159   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 4.3.4.3                                                                                                               12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150223   0160   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 8.5.2                                                                                                                 12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150225   0161   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 8.7.3                                                                                                                 12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150227   0162   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 8.9.1                                                                                                                 12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150229   0163   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 8.8.1+8.10.1                                                                                                          12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150231   0164   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 8.8.2+8.10.2                                                                                                          12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150293   0165   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 8.16.9+8.16.10 36.903 CR                                                                                                            12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150305   0166   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 8.16.11+8.16.12 36.903 CR                                                                                                           12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150307   0167   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 8.16.13+8.16.14 36.903 CR                                                                                                           12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150309   0168   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 8.16.15+8.16.16 36.903 CR                                                                                                           12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150311   0169   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 9.1.18.1+9.1.19.1 36.903 CR                                                                                                         12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150313   0170   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 9.1.18.2+9.1.19.2 36.903 CR                                                                                                         12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150315   0171   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 9.1.20.1+9.1.21.1 36.903 CR                                                                                                         12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150317   0172   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 9.1.20.2+9.1.21.2 36.903 CR                                                                                                         12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150319   0173   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 9.2.23.1+9.2.24.1 36.903 CR                                                                                                         12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150325   0174   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 9.2.23.2+9.2.24.2 36.903 CR                                                                                                         12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150853   0175   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 5.1.5                                                                                                          12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150854   0176   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 5.1.6                                                                                                          12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-03   RAN5\#66   R5-150855   0177   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 5.2.3, 5.2.6                                                                                                   12.4.0    12.5.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151078   0178   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 9.1.3 and 9.1.4                                                                                               12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151079   0179   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 9.2.4 and 9.2.5                                                                                               12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151080   0180   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.3 and 10.4                                                                                                 12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151081   0181   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.3A and 10.4A                                                                                               12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151082   0182   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 37.571-1 Test Case 10.2D                                                                                                             12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151084   0183   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 37.571-1 Test Case 10.4D                                                                                                             12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151132   0184   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.9.1.1 and 9.9.2.1                                                                                              12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151134   0185   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.9.1.2 and 9.9.2.2                                                                                              12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151263   0186   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 8.3.1+8.3.2+8.14.1+8.14.2                                                                                             12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151264   0187   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 8.4.1+8.4.2+8.15.1+8.15.2                                                                                             12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151265   0188   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 9.2.4A.1                                                                                                              12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151266   0189   \-    Update Test Tolerance Analysis for TS 36.521-3 TC 9.2.4A.2                                                                                                              12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151541   0198   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TC 8.16.21 36.903 CR                                                                                                                    12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151543   0199   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TC 8.16.22 36.903 CR                                                                                                                    12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151545   0200   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 9.1.24.1 36.903 CR                                                                                                                  12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151547   0201   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 9.1.24.1\_1 36.903 CR                                                                                                               12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151549   0202   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TC 9.1.24.2 36.903 CR                                                                                                                   12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151553   0204   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TC 9.2.27.2 36.903 CR                                                                                                                   12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151837   0190   1     Update Test Tolerances and Test requirements for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 4.2.3, 4.2.4, 4.2.5, 4.2.6                                                                      12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151839   0191   1     Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.5.1                                                                                                        12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151841   0192   1     Update Test Tolerances and Test requirements for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.5.2                                                                                          12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151843   0194   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for Rel-12 Improved RSRP accuracy Test cases                                                                                                12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151845   0195   1     Update Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 8.11.1+8.11.2 for frequencies above 3GHz 36.903 CR                                                                               12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151847   0196   1     Update Test Tolerance analysis for TC 8.11.3 for frequencies above 3GHz 36.903 CR                                                                                       12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151849   0197   1     Update Test Tolerance analysis for TC 8.11.4 for frequencies above 3GHz 36.903 CR                                                                                       12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-06   RAN5\#67   R5-151851   0203   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TC 9.2.27.1 36.903 CR                                                                                                                   12.5.0    12.6.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   R5-153175   0205   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 4.3.1.1                                                                                                        12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   R5-153178   0206   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for Test case 4.3.4.1                                                                                                                    12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   R5-153180   0207   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 5.1.3+5.1.4+5.1.7+5.1.8                                                                                       12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   R5-153252   0208   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.20.2B                                                                                                           12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   R5-153444   0209   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 7.1.3+7.1.3\_1+7.1.4+7.1.4\_1 36.903 CR                                                                                             12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   R5-153531   0210   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 5.2.7                                                                                                          12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   R5-153543   0211   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 5.2.8 and 5.2.9                                                                                               12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   R5-153546   0212   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test case 5.2.10                                                                                                         12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-09   RAN5\#68   \-          \-     \-    update of the \"non-specific references\" in section 2 according to the approved R5-153582 and an action point on ETSI MCC                                              12.6.0    12.7.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155017   0213   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.3A\_1 and 10.4A\_1                                                                                            12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155095   0214   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for 7.1.4A                                                                                                                                  12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155140   0215   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 4.3.2 and 4.3.4.2                                                                                             12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155142   0216   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 4.4.1 and 4.4.2                                                                                               12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155148   0219   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.20.4A                                                                                                           12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155150   0220   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.20.4B                                                                                                           12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155195   0221   \-    Update Test Tolerance analyses for serving cell Intra Frequency Absolute RSRQ Accuracy Test cases                                                                       12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155198   0222   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for 2DL CA activation and deactivation of known SCell in non-DRX Test cases                                                                 12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155202   0224   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for 3DL CA Event Triggered Reporting under Deactivated SCells in Non-DRX Test cases                                                         12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155206   0225   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for 3DL E-UTRA for Carrier Aggregation RSRP Accuracy Test cases                                                                             12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155208   0226   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for 3DL E-UTRA for Carrier Aggregation RSRQ Accuracy Test cases                                                                             12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155418   0227   \-    Addition of Test Tolerance analysis for 3DL E-UTRA for Carrier Aggregation RSRP Accuracy Test cases                                                                     12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155588   0228   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TCs 8.16.31+8.16.32+8.16.33+8.16.34 36.903 CR                                                                                           12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155882   0223   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN TDD -- UE Timing Advanced Adjustment Accuracy Test for SCell in sTAG                                                            12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155886   0217   1     Update Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 4.5.1.1 and 4.5.2.1                                                                                           12.7.0    12.8.0
  2015-12   RAN5\#69   R5-155887   0218   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.20.2A                                                                                                           12.7.0    12.8.0
  2016-03   RAN\#71    R5-160199   0229   \-    Band 66 update of Test Tolerance analyses for 3DL E-UTRA for CA RSRP Accuracy Test cases                                                                                12.8.0    12.9.0
  2016-03   RAN\#71    R5-160223   0230   \-    Add TT analysis for 8.16.23 and 8.16.24 TDD-FDD CA event triggered reporting under deactivated SCell in non-DRX with PCell in FDD/TDD 36.903                            12.8.0    12.9.0
  2016-03   RAN\#71    R5-160224   0231   \-    Add TT analysis for 8.16.25 and 8.16.26 TDD-FDD CA event triggered reporting on deactivated SCell with PCell interruption in non-DRX with PCell in FDD/TDD 36.903       12.8.0    12.9.0
  2016-03   RAN\#71    R5-160551   0234   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN 3DL CA Activation and Deactivation of Known SCell in Non-DRX                                                                    12.8.0    12.9.0
  2016-03   RAN\#71    R5-160875   0232   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 7.1.6, 7.1.7, 7.1.7A and 7.1.7B                                                                                          12.8.0    12.9.0
  2016-03   RAN\#71    R5-160882   0233   1     Update Test Tolerance analysis for RRM test cases 7.1.3, 7.1.3\_1, 7.1.4, 7.1.4\_1, and 7.1.4A                                                                          12.8.0    12.9.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162112   0235   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.5 and 10.6                                                                                                    12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162115   0236   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 37.571-1 Test Cases 10.7 and 10.8                                                                                                    12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162261   0239   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for Cat 0 RLM out of sync (non-DRX) test cases                                                                                                  12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162264   0240   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for Cat 0 RLM out of sync DRX test cases                                                                                                        12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162270   0241   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for Cat 0 RLM in sync non-DRX test cases                                                                                                        12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162273   0242   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for Cat 0 RLM in sync DRX test cases                                                                                                            12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162398   0244   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.6.1\_1 and 9.1.12.1\_1                                                                                       12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162400   0245   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.6.2\_1 and 9.1.12.2\_1                                                                                       12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162429   0246   \-    Update of Test Tolerance analyses for intra-freq absolute RSRP accuracy Test cases to include bands 65 and 66                                                           12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162431   0247   \-    Update of Test Tolerance analyses for intra-freq absolute RSRP accuracy Test cases Rel-12 to include bands 65 and 66                                                    12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162435   0248   \-    Update of Test Tolerance analyses for intra-freq relative RSRP accuracy Test cases to include bands 65 and 66                                                           12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162438   0249   \-    Update of Test Tolerance analyses for inter-freq relative RSRP accuracy Test cases to include bands 65 and 66                                                           12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162736   0253   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.25 and 9.1.26                                                                                                 12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162892   0238   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for MTC RRM test cases 8.1.12, 8.1.13, 8.1.17 and 8.1.18                                                                                    12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162893   0237   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for MTC RRM test cases 8.1.11                                                                                                               12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162896   0250   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.22.1 and 8.22.2                                                                                                 12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-162898   0251   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.22.3 and 8.22.4                                                                                                 12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-06   RAN\#72    R5-163115   0243   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 37.571-1 Test cases 8.1.3 and 8.1.4                                                                                                  12.9.0    12.10.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165167   0254   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.3.1\_1 and 9.1.4.1\_1                                                                                        12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165294   0259   \-    Band 66 update of Test Tolerance analyses for Inter-freq relative RSRP accuracy Test cases                                                                              12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165303   0260   \-    Update of Test Tolerance analyses for Test case 9.1.24                                                                                                                  12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165523   0264   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.22.9 and 8.22.10                                                                                                12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165524   0265   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.2.28 and 9.2.29                                                                                                 12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165525   0266   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.2.30 and 9.2.31                                                                                                 12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165526   0267   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.2.32 and 9.2.33                                                                                                 12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165578   0270   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.27 and 9.1.28                                                                                                 12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-165579   0271   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.33 and 9.1.34                                                                                                 12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-166097   0261   1     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for 10.2                                                                                                                              12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-166099   0262   1     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for 7.5.4                                                                                                                             12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-166101   0255   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.3.2\_1 and 9.1.4.2\_1                                                                                        12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-09   RAN\#73    R5-166307   0263   1     Addition of Test Tolerance analysis for intra frequency absolute and relative CSI-RSRP accuracies in CRI-RS based discovery signal Test cases                           12.10.0   12.11.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168169   0275   F     Addition of Test Tolerance analysis for inter frequency absolute and relative CSI-RSRP accuracies in CSI-RS based discovery signal Test cases                           12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168171   0276   F     Addition of Test Tolerance analysis for FDD/TDD absolute and relative CSI-RSRP accuracies for E-UTRAN Carrier Aggregation in CSI-RS based discovery signal Test cases   12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168260   0278   F     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for 3 DL CA Activation and Deactivation of Unknown SCell in Non-DRX test cases                                                        12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168477   0285   F     Add Test Tolerance analysis for MTC RRM test cases 9.2.42.1,9.2.43.1 and 9.2.44.1                                                                                       12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168519   0289   F     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for 10.4                                                                                                                              12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168585   0291   F     Update to Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.27 and 9.1.28                                                                                           12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168685   0294   F     PCC-SCC swap update of Test Tolerance analyses for 10+20MHz RSRQ accuracy Test cases                                                                                    12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168817   0295   F     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for DC RLM out of sync DRX test cases                                                                                                 12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168819   0296   F     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for DC RLM in sync DRX test cases                                                                                                     12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168831   0297   F     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for TC 9.1.5.1 to cater for FDD\_B                                                                                                    12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168835   0298   F     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for TC 9.1.5.2 to cater for FDD\_B                                                                                                    12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168838   0299   F     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for TC's 9.1.6.1, 9.1.7.1, 9.1.12.1 and 9.1.13.1 to cater for FDD\_B                                                                  12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-169596   0279   F     Add Test Tolerance analysis for DC RRM test cases 8.23.4, 8.23.5 and 8.23.6                                                                                             12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-169604   0293   F     PCC-SCC swap update of Test Tolerance analyses for 10+20MHz TDD-TDD inter-frequency event triggered reporting test cases                                                12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-169605   0300   F     Update of Test Tolerance analyses for TC's 9.1.6.2, 9.1.7.2, 9.1.12.2 and 9.1.13.2 to cater for FDD\_B                                                                  12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-169607   0272   F     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.41.1, 9.1.42.1 and 9.1.43.1                                                                                   12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-169608   0273   F     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.41.2, 9.1.42.2 and 9.1.43.2                                                                                   12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-169728   0286   F     Add Test Tolerance analysis for MTC RRM test cases 8.1.19, 8.1.20,8.1.21 and 8.1.22                                                                                     12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-169729   0287   F     Add Test Tolerance analysis for MTC RRM test cases 8.2.7 and 8.2.8                                                                                                      12.11.0   12.12.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168173   0277   F     Addition of Test Tolerance analysis for intra frequency absolute and relative RSRP accuracies of Cat-M1 UE in CEModeA                                                   12.12.0   13.0.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168358   0283   F     Test tolerance calculation for OOS RLM test cases for CE Mode A                                                                                                         12.12.0   13.0.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-168360   0284   F     Test tolerance calculation for IS RLM test cases for CE Mode A                                                                                                          12.12.0   13.0.0
  2016-12   RAN\#74    R5-169598   0292   F     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.57, 9.1.58 and 9.1.59                                                                                         12.12.0   13.0.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-170790   0310   \-    Update to Test Tolerance analysis for the Test cases 9.1.29 and 9.1.30                                                                                                  13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171078   0316   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.22.5 and 8.22.6                                                                                                     13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171198   0320   \-    Update of Test Tolerance analyses for TDD Relative RSRP Accuracy for E-UTRA Carrier Aggregation for 20MHz + 10MHz                                                       13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171782   0315   1     Test Tolerance analyses updates for TC's 9.1.8.1, 9.1.9.1 to cater for FDD\_B                                                                                           13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171784   0319   1     PCC-SCC swap update of Test Tolerance analyses for 10+20MHz TDD-TDD inter-frequency event triggered reporting test cases                                                13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171930   0311   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.26.5 and 8.26.6                                                                                                 13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171961   0313   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for DC RRM test cases 8.23.1, 8.23.2 and 8.23.3                                                                                             13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171966   0307   2     Add Test Tolerance analysis for Cat NB1 intra-freq cell reselection Test case                                                                                           13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171980   0301   2     Add Test Tolerance Analyses for TS 36.521-3 Test Cases 4.2.15, 4.2.16, and 4.2.17                                                                                       13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171981   0306   1     Add Test Tolerance analyses for UE Cat M1 Handover Test cases                                                                                                           13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171982   0308   2     Addition of Test Tolerance analysis for test cases 8.1.33, 8.1.34 and 8.1.35 for Cat-M1 UE in CEModeB                                                                   13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171983   0309   2     Addition of Test Tolerance analysis for the Test Cases 8.1.23, 8.1.24, and 8.1.25 for Cat-M1 UE in CEModeA                                                              13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171984   0317   1     Test Tolerance analyses to 36.903 for TC 6.1.12 - 14 eMTC CEModeB                                                                                                       13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171988   0304   2     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.1.18.2\_1, 9.1.19.2\_1 and 9.1.24.2\_1                                                                                             13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-03   RAN\#75    R5-171989   0305   2     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.9.1.1\_1 and 9.9.2.1\_1                                                                                                            13.0.0    13.1.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172236   0326   \-    Add Test Tolerance Analysis in 36.903 for TCs 5.1.16, 5.1.17 and 5.1.18                                                                                                 13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172284   0327   \-    Update of Test Tolerance analysis to include 8.26.7 and 8.26.8 E-UTRAN FDD/TDD-FS3 Intra-frequency event triggered reporting in DRX for CRS based discovery signal      13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172288   0328   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for Contention Based Random Access Tests for Cat-M1 UEs in Enhanced Coverage Test cases                                                     13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172330   0329   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.7.1\_1+9.1.13.1\_1                                                                                           13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172332   0330   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.7.2\_1+9.1.13.2\_1                                                                                           13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172334   0331   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.8.1\_1+9.1.9.1\_1                                                                                            13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172336   0332   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.10.1\_1+9.1.11.1\_1                                                                                          13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172662   0342   \-    PCC-SCC swap update of Test Tolerance analyses for 10+20MHz TDD event triggered reporting on deactivated SCell with PCell interruption in non-DRX                       13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172732   0346   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.22.11 and 8.22.12                                                                                                   13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172745   0347   \-    Test Tolerance: Analysis of Test cases 9.2.51 and 9.2.52                                                                                                                13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-172751   0348   \-    Test Tolerance analyses updates for TC's 9.1.8.2, 9.1.9.2 to cater for FDD\_B                                                                                           13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173058   0324   1     LAA: Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.1.55 and 9.1.56                                                                                                               13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173060   0337   2     Test tolerance analysis for the test cases 8.26.3 and 8.26.4                                                                                                            13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173062   0339   2     Test tolerance analysis for the test cases 7.1.17 and 7.1.18                                                                                                            13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173069   0335   2     Add Test Tolerance analysis for Cat-M1 test cases 7.2.10, 7.2.11, 7.2.12 in CEModeB                                                                                     13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173081   0350   \-    Test tolerance analysis for 36.521-3 test cases 9.11.1 and 9.11.2                                                                                                       13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173230   0345   1     Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 8.22.7 and 8.22.8                                                                                                     13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173232   0334   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for CA RRM test cases 8.16.51, 8.16.52, 8.16.53 and 8.16.54                                                                                 13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173236   0323   1     LAA: Test Tolerance analysis of LAA Scell event reporting                                                                                                               13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173241   0336   1     Test tolerance analysis for the test cases 9.1..60 and 9.1.61                                                                                                           13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173246   0344   1     Test Tolerance: Analysis of Test cases 8.26.9 and 8.26.10                                                                                                               13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173247   0338   1     Test tolerance analysis for the test cases 6.1.15 and 6.1.16                                                                                                            13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173251   0340   1     Test tolerance analysis for the test cases 7.2.9                                                                                                                        13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173253   0341   1     Test tolerance analysis for the test cases 7.3.62 and 7.3.63                                                                                                            13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173259   0325   1     Test tolerance calculation for TC7.3.56,7.3.57,7.3.58,7.3.59                                                                                                            13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-06   RAN\#76    R5-173434   0349   2     Test Tolerance analysis for the test cases 7.3.64 and 7.3.65                                                                                                            13.1.0    13.2.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-173749   0352   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for Test case 9.1.5.1\_1                                                                                                                    13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-173753   0354   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test case 9.1.5.2\_1                                                                                                        13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-173755   0355   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 9.1.14.1\_1+9.1.15.1\_1                                                                                          13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-173844   0359   \-    Test Tolerance: Analysis of Test cases 7.1.14, 7.1.15 and 7.1.16                                                                                                        13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-173906   0360   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for Contention Based Random Access Tests in TS 36.521-3 6.2.10, 6.2.11 and 6.2.12 for Cat-M1 UEs in Normal Coverage Test cases                  13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-173919   0361   \-    Update Test Tolerance analysis for reselection Test cases 4.2.1+4.2.2+4.2.9                                                                                             13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-175032   0353   1     Add Test Tolerance analysis for TS 36.521-3 Test cases 8.16.55 and 8.16.56                                                                                              13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-175035   0358   1     Test Tolerance: Analysis of Test cases 7.3.60 and 7.3.61                                                                                                                13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-175036   0363   1     Test tolerance, addition of test tolerance analysis of NB-IoT test cases 7.3.66 and 7.3.67                                                                              13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-175164   0357   1     Test Tolerance analyses for intra frequency case for Cat M1 UE in normal coverage                                                                                       13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-09   RAN\#77    R5-175215   0351   1     Test tolerance analysis for 36.521-3 test cases 9.12.1 and 9.12.2                                                                                                       13.2.0    13.3.0
  2017-12   RAN\#78    R5-176445   0368   \-    Test tolerance, addition of test tolerance analysis of eIMTA test case 8.4.6                                                                                            13.3.0    13.4.0
  2017-12   RAN\#78    R5-177125   0364   2     Update Test Tolerance analysis for NB-IoT RLM Out-of-sync Test cases                                                                                                    13.3.0    13.4.0
  2017-12   RAN\#78    R5-177126   0365   2     Update Test Tolerance analysis for NB-IoT RLM In-sync Test cases                                                                                                        13.3.0    13.4.0
  2017-12   RAN\#78    R5-177313   0366   1     Test tolerance, addition of test tolerance analysis of NB-IoT test cases 4.2.19 and 4.2.24                                                                              13.3.0    13.4.0
  2018-03   RAN\#79    R5-181517   0370   1     Test tolerance, addition of test tolerance analysis of NB-IoT test case 6.2.16                                                                                          13.4.0    13.5.0
  2018-03   RAN\#79    R5-181518   0371   1     Test tolerance, addition of test tolerance analysis of NB-IoT test case 6.2.17                                                                                          13.4.0    13.5.0
  2018-03   RAN\#79    R5-181031   0375   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for Cat-1bis RRM test cases 4.2.20 and 4.2.21                                                                                               13.5.0    14.0.0
  2018-03   RAN\#79    R5-181032   0376   \-    Add Test Tolerance analysis for Cat-1bis RRM test cases 5.1.19 and 5.1.20                                                                                               13.5.0    14.0.0
  2018-03   RAN\#79    R5-181512   0369   1     Test tolerance, addition of test tolerance analysis of SRS switching test case 7.6.1 and 7.6.2.                                                                         13.5.0    14.0.0
  2018-03   RAN\#79    R5-181513   0372   1     Addition of test tolerance analysis for HST test case 8.2.11                                                                                                            13.5.0    14.0.0
  2018-06   RAN\#80    R5-183717   0379   1     Test tolerance, Update of zip file to add information of test case 6.2.18                                                                                               14.0.0    14.1.0
  2018-06   RAN\#80    R5-183727   0380   1     Update Test Tolerance analysis for NB-IoT Tx Timing Test cases 7.1.17+7.1.18                                                                                            14.0.0    14.1.0
  2018-06   RAN\#80    R5-183728   0378   1     Add Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN Handover inter-frequency case for UE category 1bis                                                                             14.0.0    14.1.0
  2018-06   RAN\#80    R5-183785   0381   \-    Add Test Tolerances analysis for inter-freq cell reselection Test cases for UE category 1bis                                                                            14.0.0    14.1.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-184172   0397   \-    Add Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN RRM IncMon TCs 8.3.7 and 8.4.7                                                                                                 14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-184173   0398   \-    Add Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN IncMon TC 8.3.8                                                                                                                14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-184174   0399   \-    Add Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN IncMon TC 8.3.9                                                                                                                14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-184409   0409   \-    Addition of TT analysis of V2X TC 12.2.1                                                                                                                                14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-184410   0410   \-    Addition of TT analysis of V2X TC 12.2.2                                                                                                                                14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-184411   0411   \-    Addition of TT analysis of V2X TC 12.4                                                                                                                                  14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185338   0412   1     Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN FDD-FDD and TDD-TDD inter-frequency TC 8.3.1\_2, 8.3.2\_2, 8.4.1\_2, 8.4.2\_2 and 8.4.6\_2 for UE category 1bis                    14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185339   0413   1     Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN FDD-FDD and TDD-TDD inter-frequency TC 8.3.3\_2 and 8.4.3\_2 for UE category 1bis when L3 filtering is used                        14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185340   0414   1     Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN FDD-FDD intra-frequency event triggered reporting under fading propagation conditions in asynchronous cells for UE category 1bis   14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185341   0415   1     Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN FDD-FDD and TDD-TDD intra-frequency TC 8.1.12\_2, 8.1.13\_2, 8.1.17\_2, 8.1.18\_2 for UE category 1bis                             14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185395   0383   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.1.1.1\_2 and 9.1.2.1\_2                                                                                                            14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185396   0386   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.1.1.2\_2 and 9.1.2.2\_2                                                                                                            14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185397   0387   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.1.3.1\_2 and 9.1.4.1\_2                                                                                                            14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185398   0388   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.1.3.2\_2 and 9.1.4.2\_2                                                                                                            14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185399   0389   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.1.5.1\_2                                                                                                                           14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185400   0390   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.1.5.2\_2                                                                                                                           14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185401   0392   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.2.3.1\_2 and 9.2.4.1\_2                                                                                                            14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185402   0393   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.2.3.2\_2 and 9.2.4.2\_2                                                                                                            14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185403   0394   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.2.4A.1\_2                                                                                                                          14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185404   0395   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.2.4A.2\_2                                                                                                                          14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185405   0400   1     Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM TC 9.2.1.1\_2 and 9.2.2.1\_2                                                                                                            14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185424   0384   1     Addition of TT analysis of eHST FDD Intra-frequency event reporting.                                                                                                    14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185425   0385   1     Addition of TT analysis of V2X uplink timing test case                                                                                                                  14.1.0    14.2.0
  2018-09   RAN\#81    R5-185456   0396   1     TC Group definition for RRM IncMon test cases                                                                                                                           14.1.0    14.2.0
  2019-03   RAN\#83    R5-191593   0423   \-    Addition of Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM IncMon Test Cases 4.2.10 and 4.2.11                                                                                         14.3.0    14.4.0
  2019-03   RAN\#83    R5-191594   0424   \-    Addition of Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM IncMon Test Cases 4.3.15, 4.3.3A                                                                                            14.3.0    14.4.0
  2019-03   RAN\#83    R5-191595   0425   \-    Addition of Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM IncMon Test Cases 4.3.2A and 4.3.4.4                                                                                        14.3.0    14.4.0
  2019-03   RAN\#83    R5-191596   0426   \-    Addition of Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM IncMon Test Cases 8.5.8 and 8.6.3                                                                                           14.3.0    14.4.0
  2019-03   RAN\#83    R5-191597   0427   \-    Addition of Test Tolerance Analysis for RRM IncMon Test Cases 8.7.5 and 8.7A.1                                                                                          14.3.0    14.4.0
  2019-03   RAN\#83    R5-192850   0428   1     Correction to TT analysis for NB-IOT RLM tests                                                                                                                          14.4.0    15.0.0
  2019-09   RAN\#85    R5-196398   0429   \-    Addition of Test Tolerance Analysis for 3DL/3UL TDD CA UE Transmit Timing Accuracy                                                                                      15.0.0    15.1.0
  2019-09   RAN\#85    R5-196944   0431   \-    Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN RRM feMTC Test Cases                                                                                                               15.0.0    15.1.0
  2019-12   RAN\#86    R5-197753   0432   \-    Addition of Test tolerance of V2X RRM test cases 12.3.1 and 12.3.2                                                                                                      15.1.0    15.2.0
  2019-12   RAN\#86    R5-197756   0433   \-    Addition of Test tolerance of V2X RRM test case 12.5                                                                                                                    15.1.0    15.2.0
  2019-12   RAN\#86    R5-199457   0436   \-    Test Tolerances analysis for E-UTRAN RRM feMTC Test Cases                                                                                                               15.1.0    15.2.0
  2019-12   RAN\#86    R5-199479   0434   1     Addition of Test Tolerance of V2X RRM test cases 12.6.1 and 12.6.2                                                                                                      15.1.0    15.2.0
  2020-06   RAN\#88    R5-202801   0438   1     Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN FDD inter-frequency event triggered reporting in CEModeA test cases                                                                 15.2.0    15.3.0
  2020-06   RAN\#88    R5-202802   0439   1     Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN FDD inter-frequency event triggered reporting in CEModeB test cases                                                                 15.2.0    15.3.0
  2020-09   RAN\#89    R5-204114   0440   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN HD-FDD inter frequency handover for Cat-M1 UEs in CEModeA test case                                                                 15.3.0    15.4.0
  2020-09   RAN\#89    R5-204115   0441   \-    Test Tolerance analysis for E-UTRAN HD-FDD Inter frequency RRC Re-establishment for Cat-M1 UE in CEModeA test case                                                      15.3.0    15.4.0
  2020-12   RAN\#90    R5-205894   0443   \-    Addition of TT analysis of NB-IOT TDD RRM test cases 4.2.35, 4.2.36 and 4.2.37                                                                                          15.4.0    15.5.0
  2020-12   RAN\#90    R5-206711   0442   1     Addition of test point analysis for sTTI RRM test cases                                                                                                                 15.4.0    15.5.0
  2022-06   RAN\#96    R5-223175   0445   \-    Test Tolerances for E-UTRAN intra-frequency Conditional Handover test cases                                                                                             15.5.0    16.0.0
  2022-06   RAN\#96    R5-223176   0446   \-    Test Tolerances for E-UTRAN inter-frequency Conditional Handover test cases                                                                                             15.5.0    16.0.0
  2022-09   RAN\#97    R5-224841   0447   \-    Update to TT analysis of V2X test case 12.1.2                                                                                                                           16.0.0    16.1.0
  2023-06   RAN\#100   R5-232141   0449   \-    Removal of technical content in TR 36.903 v16.1.0 and substitution with pointer to the next Release                                                                     16.1.0    16.2.0
  --------- ---------- ----------- ------ ----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
