3GPP TR 36.922 V16.0.0 (2020-06)

Technical Report

3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);

TDD Home eNode B (HeNB) Radio Frequency (RF)\
requirements analysis

(Release 16)

![](media/image1.jpeg) ![](media/image2.png)

The present document has been developed within the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles -- Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne -- FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> <http://www.3gpp.org>

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 6

1 Scope 7

2 References 7

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 7

3.1 Definitions 7

3.2 Symbols 7

3.3 Abbreviations 8

4 General 8

5 Radio scenarios 8

5.1 Deployment configurations 8

5.2 Interference scenarios 9

6 RF Aspects 10

6.1 Transmitter characteristics 10

6.1.1 HeNB output power 10

6.1.1.1 HeNB maximum output power 10

6.1.1.1.1 Analysis 10

6.1.1.1.2 Minimum requirement 11

6.1.1.2 HeNB output power for adjacent UTRA channel protection 11

6.1.1.3 HeNB output power for adjacent E-UTRA channel protection 12

6.1.2 Frequency error 13

6.1.2.1 Handover performance 13

6.1.2.2 Cell capacity 13

6.1.2.3 Timing 16

6.1.2.4 Minimum requirement 17

6.1.3 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) 17

6.1.3.1 Minimum requirement 17

6.1.4 Operating band unwanted emissions 18

6.1.4.1 Minimum requirements 19

6.1.5 Spurious emissions 21

6.1.5.1 Mandatory requirements 21

6.1.5.2 Co-existence with HNB/HeNB operating in other bands 21

6.1.5.2.1 Minimum requirement 21

6.1.6 Transmitter intermodulation 22

6.1.6.1 Minimum requirement 23

6.2 Receiver characteristics 23

6.2.1 Reference sensitivity level 23

6.2.1.1 Uplink performance degradation of macrocell 23

6.2.1.1.1 Simulation setup 23

6.2.1.1.2 Simulation results 24

6.2.1.2 HeNB desensitization 25

6.2.1.3 Minimum requirement 27

6.2.2 Dynamic range 27

6.2.2.1 Deterministic analysis 27

6.2.2.2 System-level simulations 28

6.2.2.3 Minimum requirement 29

6.2.3 Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) and narrow-band blocking 29

6.2.3.1 Simulation assumptions 29

6.2.3.2 Simulation results 30

6.2.3.3 Minimum requirements 31

6.2.4 Blocking characteristics 32

6.2.4.1 General blocking requirement 32

6.2.4.1.1 Minimum requirement 33

6.2.4.2 Co-location with other HNB/HeNB 34

6.2.5 Receiver Intermodulation 35

6.2.5.1 Analysis 35

6.2.5.2 Minimum requirement 35

6.2.6 In-channel selectivity 37

6.2.6.1 Analysis 37

6.2.6.2 Minimum requirement 37

6.3 Performance requirement 37

6.4 Synchronization requirement 38

6.4.1 Synchronization Accuracy 38

6.4.1.1 Synchronization error analysis 38

6.4.1.2 Synchronization requirement 39

6.4.2 Techniques for Synchronization 40

6.4.2.1 Synchronization using Network Listening 40

6.4.2.1.1 Interference Problems with Network Listening and Solutions 40

6.4.2.1.2 MBSFN Subframe based Network Listening 41

6.4.2.1.3 TDD Special Subframe based Network Listening 42

6.4.2.1.4 Indication of Stratum Level and Synchronization Status 45

6.4.2.1.5 Scheme Comparison 48

7 Interference control 48

7.1 HeNB measurements 48

7.1.1 Measurements from all cells 49

7.1.2 Measurements to identify surrounding cell layers 49

7.1.3 Measurements from macro cell layer 49

7.1.4 Measurements of other HeNB cells 50

7.2 HeNB self-configuration 51

7.2.1 Information Exchange between eNBs and HeNBs 51

7.3 Uplink interference control 53

7.3.1 Control Channel Protection 53

7.3.1.1 HeNB Uplink Control Channel Protection 53

7.3.1.2 Signalling offset over the backhaul 54

7.3.2 Smart Power Control based on Path Loss to Worst Victim Macro
eNodeB 54

7.3.2.1 Power Cap Method 54

7.3.2.1.1 Simulation Assumptions 54

7.3.2.1.2 Simulation Results 55

7.3.2.1.3 Discussion of Results 58

7.3.2.2 Power Control based on PL from HUE to its serving HeNB and PL
from HUE to its worst victim MeNB 58

7.3.2.2.1 Simulation Assumptions 58

7.3.2.2.2 Simulation Results 59

7.3.2.2.3 Discussion of Results 60

7.3.2.3 For Future Releases 60

7.4 Downlink interference control 60

7.4.1 Control Channel Protection 60

7.4.1.1 Control of HeNB downlink interference towards macro eNB control
channels by frequency partitioning with per-subband interference
estimation 61

7.4.1.2 Control of HeNB downlink interference among neighboring HeNBs
control channels by frequency partitioning 62

7.4.2 Data Channel Protection 62

7.4.2.1 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference towards macro eNB data
channels by frequency partition 62

7.4.2.2 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference among neighboring HeNBs 63

7.4.2.2.1 Centralized coordination 63

7.4.2.2.2 Distributed Dynamic Frequency Partitioning 64

7.4.2.3 Adaptive Frequency Selection 64

7.4.2.4 Downlink interference management based on mapping between PCIs
and transmission patterns 65

7.4.2.5 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference by dynamically changing
HeNB CSG ID 65

7.4.3 Power Control 66

7.4.3.1 HeNB power control based on HeNB-MUE path loss 66

7.4.3.2 Smart power control based on interference measurement from macro
BS 67

7.5 Hybrid Cells 68

7.5.1 Hybrid Access Level of Service 68

7.5.2 DL Performance Evaluation 68

7.5.3 Hybrid Cell RB Resource Management 71

7.5.4 Hybrid Cell Power Management 71

Annex A (informative): Change History 73

 Foreword
========

This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document is the technical report for the work item on LTE
TDD HeNB RF requirements, which was approved at TSG RAN\#43. The
objective of the WI is to first identify the relevant scenarios and then
write an RF requirements specification that is applicable to LTE TDD
HeNB.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

• References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".

\[3\] 3GPP TR 21.912: \"Example 2, using fixed text\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS36.211, \"Physical Channels and Modulation\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS36.104, \"Base Station radio transmission and reception\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS36.101, \"User Equipment (UE) transmission and reception\".

\[7\] 3GPP TR 25 967 : \"FDD Home Node B (HNB) RF Requirements\".

\[8\] 3GPP TR36.804, \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception".

\[9\] 3GPP TR36.942, \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".

\[10\] 3GPP TR25.951, \"FDD Base Station (BS) classification\".

\[11\] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".

\[12\] ITU-R M.1225, Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface
technologies for IMT-Advanced

\[13\] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Physical layer procedures\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

(Void)

3.2 Symbols
-----------

(Void)

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

HeNB Home Enhanced Node B

HNB Home NodeB

CSG Closed Subscriber Group

GPS Global Positioning System

4 General
=========

This work item has the following objectives:

1\. Specify the RF requirements for the E-UTRA TDD Home eNodeB in
TS36.104 and the corresponding updates on the test specification in
TS36.141. Some requirements could refer to the outcome of
existing/ongoing related studies.

2\. Investigate and find out effective interference control schemes to
ensure good performance of both macro layer and HeNB. Although some of
the studies could refer to UTRA HNB related work experience, e.g.
deployment/interference scenarios, amount of studies are needed to find
out the effective interference control schemes due to different physical
techniques and system characters between E-UTRA and UTRA. The work
should include but not be limited to the followings,

• The operator has the means to obtain interference control related
measurements reports from HeNB and/or HUE, e.g. the strength of signals
and the identity from the macro cell layer and from other HeNBs.

• The operator has the means to set the maximum output power and/or
frequency of HeNB. This is expected to introduce changes to TS36.104.

• The operator has the means to coordinate the HeNB and eNB timing and
TDD configuration. This is expected to introduce changes to TS36.104.

• The operator has guidance on how to control HeNB power and expected
performance levels in the relevant scenarios.

The scope of this work item is limited to the LTE TDD mode.

5 Radio scenarios 
=================

5.1 Deployment configurations
-----------------------------

In TR 25.967 \[7\], a number of different deployment configurations have
been considered for FDD Home NodeB, including:

• Open access or CSG (Closed Subscriber Group)

• Dedicated channel or co-channel

• Fixed or adaptive (DL) maximum transmit power

For FDD or TDD Home eNodeB, the following deployment configuration
should be considered in addition to the ones listed above:

• Fixed or adaptive resource partitioning

Specifically, the resource partitioning could be performed in frequency,
time or spatial dimensions for interference coordination.

**[Frequency partitioning]{.underline}**

Most existing LTE ICIC mechanisms belong to this category, e.g., FFR and
SFR. Frequency partitioning can be combined with power control to
achieve better performance. Different from the partial co-channel
configuration for HNB \[7\], frequency partitioning can be performed at
the granularities of RBs within a carrier, as shown in Figure 5.1-1,
which enables more flexible coordination not only between Macro and Home
eNodeB, but also between the Home eNodeBs. For the frequency
partitioning method, the Adjacent Channel Power Leakage (ACPL) problem
should be taken into account in performance evaluation, similar to the
dedicated channel configuration. If adaptive frequency partitioning is
used, possible information exchanges between Home eNodeBs may need to be
supported.

Figure 5.1-1 Frequency Partitioning

**[Time partitioning]{.underline}**

The resources used in Macro and Home eNodeBs can also be partitioned and
coordinated in the time dimension. Different time zone or UL-DL
configurations between HeNBs and macro eNBs or among HeNBs under
specific conditions may provide some flexibility for interference
coordination. However, it may also bring new interference risks. Further
interference mitigation method based on the time partitioning is FFS.

**[Spatial partitioning]{.underline}**

Due to uplink-downlink channel reciprocity, TDD HeNBs can use beam
coordination to improve interference conditions. For example, the HeNB
can avoid beam collision with the Macro or other Home eNBs in a
proactive or reactive way. These mechanisms may require a certain amount
of information exchange between the HeNBs.

5.2 Interference scenarios
--------------------------

Table 5.2-1 and Figure 5.2-1 show the possible HeNB related interference
scenarios. The listed interference scenarios are the same for both TDD
and FDD. The main difference may exist in how to model the interference,
especially for some control channels that are always present, e.g., BCH,
SCH. For both TDD and FDD, we propose to evaluate the control
interference based on the assumption that different base stations are
synchronized to ensure the system performance even under the worst
circumstance.

Table 5.2-1 Interference scenarios

  Number   Aggressor                                         Victim                                            Priority
  -------- ------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------
  **1**    UE attached to Home eNode B                       Macro eNode B Uplink                              Yes
  **2**    Home eNode B                                      Macro eNode B Downlink                            Yes
  **3**    UE attached to Macro eNode B                      Home eNode B Uplink                               Yes
  **4**    Macro eNode B                                     Home eNode B Downlink                             
  **5**    UE attached to Home eNode B                       Home eNode B Uplink                               Yes
  **6**    Home eNode B                                      Home eNode B Downlink                             Yes
  **7**    UE attached to Home eNode B and/or Home eNode B   Other System                                      
  **8**    Other System                                      UE attached to Home eNode B and/or Home eNode B   

![](media/image4.png)

Figure 5.2-1 Interference Scenarios

6 RF Aspects
============

6.1 Transmitter characteristics
-------------------------------

### 6.1.1 HeNB output power

#### 6.1.1.1 HeNB maximum output power

##### 6.1.1.1.1 Analysis

From HeNB coverage and capacity point of view, it will be beneficial to
define relatively larger output power. However, as already been
demonstrated by numerous contributions, the maximum output power should
be limited in order to control the HeNB-\>MeNB downlink interference.
So, the maximum HeNB output power should be a trade-off between the HeNB
performance and the interference towards close-by MeNB users, which do
not have access to the HeNB. Based on some studies in RAN4, the
simulation results show that in some cases the HeNB power can be set up
to 20dBm. While in some other cases, e.g. in the case of shared carrier
deployment, the HeNB power should be limited to a relatively low level.

Furthermore, the definition of the total HeNB output power should also
consider supporting existing E-UTRAN UEs. The interfering power level
for HeNB ACS requirement is defined -28dBm at 1% blocking probability,
which means the MCL between HeNB and UE is 45dB based on the 23dBm UE
maximum power. For UE, the current maximum tolerable interfering level
for ACS is -25dBm. Assuming the total HeNB output power (i.e. the sum
over all transmit antennas) equal to PheNB, the following formula should
be true,

PheNB+25\<MCL=45dB.

Seen from the above, HeNB total transmission power of \~20dBm is also
applicable from link balance point of view.

So, it is proposed to set the HeNB total maximum output power
requirement as 20dBm and the maximum power per antenna depending on
different antenna configurations.

##### 6.1.1.1.2 Minimum requirement

Maximum output power, Pmax, of the base station is the mean power level
per carrier measured at the antenna connector in specified reference
condition. The rated output power, PRAT, of the BS shall be as
following,

[\<]{.underline} 20dBm -10\*log10 (N)

Where, N is the number of transmitter antenna. N = 1, 2 and 4.

In normal conditions, the base station maximum output power shall remain
within +2 dB and -2 dB of the rated output power declared by the
manufacturer.

In extreme conditions, the base station maximum output power shall
remain within +2.5 dB and -2.5 dB of the rated output power declared by
the manufacturer.

#### 6.1.1.2 HeNB output power for adjacent UTRA channel protection

The Home BS shall be capable of adjusting the transmitter output power
to minimize the interference level on the adjacent channels licensed to
other operators in the same geographical area while optimize the Home BS
coverage. These requirements are only applicable to Home BS. The
requirements in this clause are applicable for AWGN radio propagation
conditions.

The output power, Pout, of the Home BS shall be as specified in Table
6.1.1.2-1 under the following input conditions:

\- CPICH Êc, measured in dBm, is the code power of the Primary CPICH on
one of the adjacent channels present at the Home BS antenna connector
for the CPICH received on the adjacent channels. If Tx diversity is
applied on the Primary CPICH, CPICH Êc shall be the sum in W of the code
powers of the Primary CPICH transmitted from each antenna.

\- Ioh, measured in dBm, is the total received power density, including
signals and interference but excluding the own Home BS signal, present
at the Home BS antenna connector on the Home BS operating channel.

In case that both adjacent channels are licensed to other operators, the
most stringent requirement shall apply for Pout. In the case when one of
the adjacent channels is licensed to a E-UTRA operator while the other
adjacent channel is licensed to a UTRA operator, the more stringent
requirement of this subclause and subclause 6.1.1.3 shall apply for
Pout. In case the Home BS\'s operating channel and both adjacent
channels are licensed to the same operator, the requirements of this
clause do not apply.

The input conditions defined for the requirements in this section are
specified at the antenna connector of the Home BS. For Home BS receivers
with diversity, the requirements apply to each antenna connector
separately, with the other one(s) terminated or disabled. The
requirements are otherwise unchanged. For Home BS(s) without measurement
capability, a reference antenna with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed for
converting these power levels into field strength requirements.

Table 6.1.1.2-1: Home BS output power for adjacent operator UTRA channel
protection

+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Input Conditions        | Output power, Pout                           |
+=========================+==============================================+
| Ioh \> CPICH Êc + 43 dB | ≤ 10 dBm                                     |
|                         |                                              |
| And CPICH Êc ≥ -105dBm  |                                              |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Ioh ≤ CPICH Êc + 43 dB  | ≤ max(8 dBm, min(20 dBm, CPICH Êc + 100 dB)) |
|                         |                                              |
| and CPICH Êc ≥ -105dBm  |                                              |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+

Note 1: The Home BS transmitter output power specified in Table
6.1.1.2-1 assumes a Home BS reference antenna gain of 0 dBi, an target
outage zone of 47dB around the Home BS for an UE on the adjacent
channel, with an allowance of 2 dB for measurement errors, an ACIR of 33
dB, an adjacent channel UE CPICH Ec/Io target of -18 dB and the same
CPICH Êc value at the adjacent channel UE as for the Home BS.

Note 2: For CPICH Êc \< -105dBm, the requirements in subclauses 6.1.1.1
apply.

Note 3: The output power Pout is the sum transmit power across all the
antennas of the Home BS, with each transmit power measured at the
respective antenna connectors.

#### 6.1.1.3 HeNB output power for adjacent E-UTRA channel protection

The Home BS shall be capable of adjusting the transmitter output power
to minimize the interference level on the adjacent channels licensed to
other operators in the same geographical area while optimize the Home BS
coverage. These requirements are only applicable to Home BS. The
requirements in this clause are applicable for AWGN radio propagation
conditions.

The output power, Pout, of the Home BS shall be as specified in Table
6.1.1.3-1 under the following input conditions:

\- CRS Êc, measured in dBm, is the Reference Signal Received Power per
resource element on one of the adjacent channels present at the Home BS
antenna connector for the Reference Signal received on the adjacent
channels. For CRS Êc determination, the cell-specific reference signal
R0 according TS 36.211 \[4\] shall be used. If the Home BS can reliably
detect that multiple TX antennas are used for transmission on the
adjacent channel, it may use the average in W of the CRS Êc on all
detected antennas.

\- Ioh, measured in dBm, is the total received power density, including
signals and interference but excluding the own Home BS signal, present
at the Home BS antenna connector on the Home BS operating channel.

In case that both adjacent channels are licensed to other operators, the
most stringent requirement shall apply for Pout. In the case when one of
the adjacent channels is licensed to a E-UTRA operator while the other
adjacent channel is licensed to a UTRA operator, the more stringent
requirement of this subclause and subclause 6.1.1.3 shall apply for
Pout. In case the Home BS\'s operating channel and both adjacent
channels are licensed to the same operator, the requirements of this
clause do not apply.

The input conditions defined for the requirements in this section are
specified at the antenna connector of the Home BS. For Home BS receivers
with diversity, the requirements apply to each antenna connector
separately, with the other one(s) terminated or disabled .The
requirements are otherwise unchanged. For Home BS(s) without measurement
capability, a reference antenna with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed for
converting these power levels into field strength requirements.

Table 6.1.1.3-1: Home BS output power for adjacent operator E-UTRA
channel protection

+-------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Input Conditions        | Output power, Pout                          |
+=========================+=============================================+
| Ioh \> CRS Êc + + 30 dB | ≤ 10 dBm                                    |
|                         |                                             |
| and CRS Êc ≥ -127dBm    |                                             |
+-------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Ioh ≤ CRS Êc + + 30 dB  | ≤ max(8 dBm, min(20 dBm, CRS Êc + + 85 dB)) |
|                         |                                             |
| and CRS Êc ≥ -127dBm    |                                             |
+-------------------------+---------------------------------------------+

Note 1: The Home BS transmitter output power specified in Table
6.1.1.3-1 assumes a Home BS reference antenna gain of 0 dBi, an target
outage zone of 47dB around the Home BS for an UE on the adjacent
channel, with an allowance of 2 dB for measurement errors, an ACIR of 30
dB, an adjacent channel UE Ês/Iot target of -6 dB and the same CRS Êc
value at the adjacent channel UE as for the Home BS.

Note 2: For CRS Êc \< -127dBm, the requirements in subclauses 6.1.1.1
apply.

Note 3: The output power Pout is the sum transmit power across all the
antennas of the Home BS, with each transmit power measured at the
respective antenna connectors.

Note 4: is the number of downlink resource blocks in the own Home BS
channel.

Note 5: is the number of subcarriers in a resource block, .

### 6.1.2 Frequency error

Frequency error is the difference between the actual BS transmit
frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used for
RF frequency and data clock generation. Frequencies accuracy is an
important RF requirement for HeNB. A reasonable tradeoff between the
cost and system performance should be made to derive the frequency error
for HeNB. Frequency accuracy will affect the system performance in many
areas, such as handover performance, cell throughput and timing etc.

#### 6.1.2.1 Handover performance

Frequency accuracy requirement will affect the measurement precision,
which may degrade the handover performance. For HeNB, there are three
kinds of handover scenarios, (1) handover from eNB to HeNB, (2) handover
from HeNB to eNB, (3) handover between HeNBs. Since eNB usually has a
better frequency accuracy performance than HeNB, the handover between
HeNBs is the worst scenario. Although the handover scenarios of HeNB
have not been defined clearly in 3GPP, the frequency error should
support all possible scenarios.

Figure 6.1.2.1-1 Handover between HeNB

For macro cells, eNB can support the handover at the speed of 350km/h.
For home environment, the maximum speed of UE is only 30km/h. Since the
frequency error of ±0.05ppm and speed of 350km/h can be supported by
EUTRA, the frequency error of HeNB should be relaxed because of the
limited maximum speed. The computation is same to the analysis for macro
eNB. Assuming the operating frequency is 2.6GHz, the frequency accuracy
of HeNB should be within ±0.34ppm.

#### 6.1.2.2 Cell capacity

One of the main motivations to introduce HeNB is providing high data
rate services for indoor environment. Therefore, the high order
modulation and coding scheme such as 64QAM 5/6 must be supported by
HeNB. However,

BS frequency error can results in UE demodulation frequency error, thus
resulting in performance degradation for received signal as shown in the
following formula.

Where, are received signal, transmit signal, number of sub-carriers,
frequency error and sampling time interval respectively. The first part
in the right side is the expected signal on the observed subcarrier and
the second part is the interferences from other sub-carriers other than
the observed one. It is seen that frequency error results in amplitude
fading and phase rotation for the expected signal on the observed
sub-carriers and ICI between sub-carriers. Both these two factors will
cause performance degradation for UE demodulation. Figure 6.1.2.2-1
shows the SNR degradation because of the frequency error in OFDM. For
example, if the signal to noise ratio (SNR) is 20dB, the performance
degradation can be ignored when the frequency error is less than 100Hz.
If the frequency error is 400Hz, the performance degradation will be
larger than 1dB, which implies the signal to inter-subcarrier
interference and noise ratio (SINR) is less than 19dB.

![](media/image13.png)

Figure 6.1.2.2-1 SNR degradation VS frequency error

In fact, the performance degradation is related to the Doppler shift and
the relative error between HeNB and UE. Usually, UE has frequency offset
estimation and compensation algorithm to follow frequency change due to
mobility and BS transmit frequency error. Therefore, the link
performance depends on the performance of the estimation and
compensation algorithms. According to the OFDM performance analysis, as
long as the residual frequency error after compensation is less than one
percent of the subcarrier interval, the link performance degradation can
be ignored.

In order to evaluate the impact of 0.25ppm BS frequency error on 64QAM,
we compare UE performance for the cases listed in Table 6.1.2.2-1 using
a commonly used UE algorithm. Since home eNode B is targeted at use in
low delay spread environment, only relatively low speed environment
related EVA and EPA channel type is considered.

Table 6.1.2.2-1 Scenarios for evaluation of HeNB frequency error
requirement

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Scenario \#    | Propagation    | Doppler shift  | Frequency      |
|                | condition      | ^NOTE^         | error          |
+================+================+================+================+
| Scenario 1     | EVA            | 70Hz\*         | 0.05ppm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Scenario 2     | EVA            | 70Hz\*         | 0.25ppm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Scenario 3     | EPA            | 5Hz\*\*        | 0.05ppm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Scenario 4     | EPA            | 5Hz\*\*        | 0.25ppm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note \*:       |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| to typical UE  |                |                |                |
| speed of       |                |                |                |
| \~38km/h in    |                |                |                |
| EVA condition. |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note\*\*:      |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| to typical UE  |                |                |                |
| speed of       |                |                |                |
| \~3km/h in EPA |                |                |                |
| condition.     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Usually the short term frequency stability will affect the demodulation
performance more. The short term frequency changing in time domain is in
the order of few seconds and 10s may be an acceptable value to capture
the frequency change period. So we use a sine wave to model the
frequency change due to frequency stability in the simulations.

Where T =10s is the periodicity of the sine wave used to modulate the
short term frequency stability characteristic in time domain. is the
frequency error (0.05ppm or 0.25ppm).

Figure 6.1.2.2-2 gives simulation results for scenario 1 and scenario 2
under EVA propagation channel. Figure 6.1.2.2-3 gives simulation results
for scenario 3 and scenario 4.

![](media/image16.emf)

Figure 6.1.2.2-2 Impact of frequency error on UE 64QAM demodulation
performance, EVA70Hz

![](media/image17.emf)

Figure 6.1.2.2-3 Impact of frequency error on UE 64QAM demodulation
performance, EPA5Hz

It can be seen from the results, increasing frequency error requirement
from current 0.05ppm to 0.25ppm results in almost no performance
degradation for HeNB 64QAM.

#### 6.1.2.3 Timing

As the carrier frequency source is also used to generate the data clock
\[5\], the frequency error is also relative to the synchronization
period when the network listening scheme is applied. As the HeNB cannot
capture the GPS timing signal in most deployment scenarios, network
listening scheme is a feasible synchronization solution for HeNB. HeNB
may periodically utilize a synchronization signal such as the primary
synchronization sequence (PSS), secondary synchronization sequence (SSS)
and common reference signal (CRS) from eNB to drive its timing.
According to the analysis in RAN4, the maximum synchronization period
can be computed and listed in Table 6.1.2.3-1. Note that the frequency
error is the relative frequency error between eNB and HeNB, or HeNB and
HeNB. For example, if the frequency error of HeNB is 0.25ppm, the
relative frequency error between eNB and HeNB is range from 0.2ppm to
0.3ppm, and the relative frequency error between HeNBs is range from 0
to 0.5ppm.

Table 6.1.2.3-1 Synchronization maintenance periods with different
frequency error values

  Frequency error   Maximum synchronization period
  ----------------- --------------------------------
  0.2ppm            7.5s
  0.3ppm            5s
  0.4ppm            3.75s
  0.5ppm            3s

Figure 6.1.2.3-1 Network listening synchronization scheme

According to the above analysis, if the frequency error of HeNB is
stricter than 0.3ppm, the synchronization maintenance period and related
overhead seem to be acceptable.

#### 6.1.2.4 Minimum requirement

The modulated carrier frequency of the HeNB shall be accurate to within
±0.25 ppm observed over a period of one subframe (1ms).

### 6.1.3 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)

Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered
mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered
mean power centred on an adjacent channel frequency.

The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered
(single carrier or multi-carrier). It applies for all transmission modes
foreseen by the manufacturer\'s specification. For a multi-carrier BS,
the requirement applies for the adjacent channel frequencies below the
lowest carrier frequency transmitted by the BS and above the highest
carrier frequency transmitted by the BS for each supported multi-carrier
transmission configuration. The requirement applies during the
transmitter ON period.

Reasonable ACLR requirements should be made to ensure the performance of
macrocell operating in adjacent channel. The relative and absolute ACLR
requirements had been studied in RAN4, the main focus is ensuring the
downlink performance of the macrocell and both base station adjacent
leakage power and UE blocking characteristics were considered.

#### 6.1.3.1 Minimum requirement

The ACLR is defined with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the
transmission bandwidth configuration of the transmitted signal
(BWConfig) centred on the assigned channel frequency and a filter
centred on the adjacent channel frequency according to the tables below.
Either the ACLR limits in the tables below or the absolute limit of
-50dBm/MHz apply, whichever is less stringent.

Table 6.1.3.1-1: Home eNodeB ACLR in unpaired spectrum with synchronized
operation

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
  E-UTRA transmitted signal channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ \[MHz\]                                                                                                             BS adjacent channel centre frequency offset below the first or above the last carrier centre frequency transmitted   Assumed adjacent channel carrier (informative)   Filter on the adjacent channel frequency and corresponding filter bandwidth   ACLR limit
  1.4, 3                                                                                                                                                                      BW~Channel~                                                                                                          E-UTRA of same BW                                Square (BW~Config~)                                                           45 dB
                                                                                                                                                                              2 x BW~Channel~                                                                                                      E-UTRA of same BW                                Square (BW~Config~)                                                           45 dB
  5, 10, 15, 20                                                                                                                                                               BW~Channel~                                                                                                          E-UTRA of same BW                                Square (BW~Config~)                                                           45 dB
                                                                                                                                                                              2 x BW~Channel~                                                                                                      E-UTRA of same BW                                Square (BW~Config~)                                                           45 dB
  NOTE 1: BW~Channel~ and BW~Config~ are the channel bandwidth and transmission bandwidth configuration of the E-UTRA transmitted signal on the assigned channel frequency.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------

### 6.1.4 Operating band unwanted emissions

The operating band unwanted emission limits are defined from 10 MHz
below the lowest frequency of the downlink operating band up to 10 MHz
above the highest frequency of the downlink operating band.

The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered
(single carrier or multi-carrier) and for all transmission modes
foreseen by the manufacturer\'s specification.

The unwanted emission limits in the part of the downlink operating band
that falls in the spurious domain are consistent with ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 \[11\].

In E-UTRA, the SEM is specified in three regions \[5\].

• Region 1 (First adjacent channel): for 1.4, 3 and 5MHz, the offset
between the channel edge frequency and the centre of the measuring
filter -3dB point is defined as the first adjacent channel and for 10,
15 and 20 MHz, region 1 is defined as 0 to 5MHz. In this region, the
emission limit usually has a slope and be relaxed compared to ACLR1
limit in the first adjacent channel.

• Region 2 (Second adjacent channel): for 1.4, 3 and 5MHz, region 2 is
defined as second adjacent channel and for 10, 15 and 20MHz, region 2 is
defined as 5 to 10MHz. In this region, the emission limit has tapered
off and is usually defined with a fixed value which cloud be set to the
same order of ACLR2 requirement.

• Region 3 (Spurious emission): in this region, the SEM is usually
defined by the spurious emission limit.

The relative ACLR1 and ACLR2 requirements are proposed to 45dBc in RAN4.
Assuming 20dBm maximum output power and 5MHz bandwidth for HeNB, the
second adjacent channel leakage power at point B of figure 6.1.4-1 is
about -42dBm/100kHz (20dBm -- 45dBc = -25dBm/4.5MHz). We propose to make
a 6dB maximum allowed relaxation for SEM in the first adjacent channel
and then get an emission limit of -36dBm/100kHz at point A. Therefore,
the emission mask for first adjacent channel will be defined as , where
the *f\_offset* is the separation between the channel edge frequency and
the centre of the measuring filter. The second adjacent channel emission
mask could be defined as -42dBm/100kHz.

Figure 6.1.4-1 Spectrum emission mask (1^st^ and 2^nd^ adjacent channel)

In region 3, the emission limit is determined by the relative and
absolute ACLR requirement whichever is less stringent, seen in figure
6.1.4-2. The absolute ACLR1&2 requirement is set to -50dBm/MHz. The
emission limit in this domain is proposed to be defined as a function of
the maximum output power of HeNB. The upper limit is about -32dBm/MHz
(20dBm -- 45dBc -- 10log4.5) and the lower limit is -50dBm/MHz. Then the
emission limit is specified by equation 2-1.

(6.2.5-1)

Figure 6.1.4-2 Spectrum emission mask layout (beyond 10MHz)

#### 6.1.4.1 Minimum requirements

For E-UTRA Home eNodeB emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels
specified in the Tables 6.1.4.1-1 to 6.2.5.1-3, where:

\- ∆f is the separation between the channel edge frequency and the
nominal -3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier
frequency.

\- f\_offset is the separation between the channel edge frequency and
the centre of the measuring filter.

\- f\_offset~max~ is the offset to the frequency 10 MHz outside the
downlink operating band.

\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f\_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.

For a multicarrier E-UTRA Home eNodeB the definitions above apply to the
lower edge of the carrier transmitted at the lowest carrier frequency
and the higher edge of the carrier transmitted at the highest carrier
frequency.

Table 6.1.4.1-1: General operating band unwanted emission limits for 1.4
MHz channel bandwidth

  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------------
  Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f   Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Minimum requirement   Measurement bandwidth (Note 1)
  0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 1.4 MHz                                   0.05 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 1.45 MHz                                                           100 kHz
  1.4 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.8 MHz                                 1.45 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.85 MHz                                     -36 dBm               100 kHz
  2.8 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ ∆f~max~                                  3.3 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< f\_offset~max~                                                      1MHz
  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------------

Table 6.1.4.1-2: General operating band unwanted emission limits for 3
MHz channel bandwidth

  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------------
  Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f   Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Minimum requirement   Measurement bandwidth (Note 1)
  0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3 MHz                                     0.05 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.05 MHz                                                           100 kHz
  3 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 6 MHz                                     3.05 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 6.05 MHz                                     -40 dBm               100 kHz
  6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ ∆f~max~                                    6.5 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< f\_offset~max~                                                      1MHz
  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------------

Table 6.1.4.1-3: General operating band unwanted emission limits for 5,
10, 15 and 20 MHz channel bandwidth

  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------------
  Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f   Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Minimum requirement   Measurement bandwidth (Note 1)
  0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 5 MHz                                     0.05 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 5.05 MHz                                                           100 kHz
  5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 10 MHz                                    5.05 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 10.05 MHz                                    -42 dBm               100 kHz
  10 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ ∆f~max~                                   10.5 MHz ≤ f\_offset \< f\_offset~max~                                                     1MHz
  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------------

NOTE 1 As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to
improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth can be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

NOTE 2 The parameter P is defined as the aggregated maximum power of all
transmit antenna ports of Home eNodeB.

### 6.1.5 Spurious emissions 

#### 6.1.5.1 Mandatory requirements

The requirements of either subclause 6.6.4.1.1 (Category A limits) or
subclause 6.6.4.1.2 (Category B limits) of TS36.104 \[5\] shall also
apply for HeNB.

#### 6.1.5.2 Co-existence with HNB/HeNB operating in other bands

Taking into account the expected deployment scenarios of HeNB,
coexistence with other types of base station are not meaningful.
Therefore, only coexistence spurious emission requirements for
protection other cross band HNB/HeNB operating in the same geographic
area will be specified.

The assumed scenario for coexistence with other HNB/HeNB is described in
Figure 6.1.5.2-1. Two HeNBs are placed in different rooms and opposite
to a wall.

![](media/image27.emf)

Figure 6.1.5.2‑1 Assumed interference scenario for coexistence with
other HNB/HeNB

PL(dB) = 127+30log10(R/1000), R in m (6.2.6.2-1)

The path loss model listed above is used to calculate the path loss
between two HeNBs, seen equation (6.2.6.2-1). The minimum separation
distance between two HeNBs is assumed to be 1 meter. Assuming 10dB
penetration loss and 0dBi antenna gain of HeNB, we can get a MCL of 47dB
for co-location with other HNB/HeNB.

The maximum allowed interference power level is determined based on
0.8dB desensitization criterion. Assuming 13dB noise figure and 47dB MCL
between two HeNBs, we can get a spurious emission limit of -71dBm/100kHz
(-174dBm + 50dB + 13dB -7dB + 47dB) to protect other HeNB. However,
there are 6dB difference in noise figure between HNB and HeNB which will
bring also 6dB difference in the co-existence requirement. Since
operators may deploy HNB and HeNB in the same operating band in real
implementations, it\'s propose to use -71dBm/100kHz as the common
requirement for protection of other HNB/HeNB operating in other
frequency bands to simplify the specification.

##### 6.1.5.2.1 Minimum requirement

The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
6.1.5.2.1-1 for a HeNB where requirements for coexistence with other
HNB/HeNB in the same geographic area listed in the first column apply.

Table 6.1.5.2.1-1: HeNB Spurious emissions limits for coexistence with
other HNB/HeNB in the same geographic area

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| Type of      | Frequency    | Maximum      | Measurement  | Note |
| coexistence  | range for    | Level        | Bandwidth    |      |
| BS           | co-location  |              |              |      |
|              | requirement  |              |              |      |
+==============+==============+==============+==============+======+
| UTRA FDD     | 1920 -- 1980 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band I or    | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 1            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 1850 -- 1910 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band II or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 2            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 1710 -- 1785 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band III or  | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 3            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 1710 -- 1755 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band IV or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 4            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 824 -- 849   | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band V or    | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 5            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 815 -- 850   | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band VI or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 6            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 2500 -- 2570 | -71 dBm      | 100 KHz      |      |
| Band VII or  | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 7            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 880 -- 915   | -71 dBm      | 100 KHz      |      |
| Band VIII or | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 8            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 1749.9 --    | -71 dBm      | 100 KHz      |      |
| Band IX or   | 1784.9 MHz   |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 9            |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 1710 -- 1770 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band X or    | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 10           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 1427.9 --    | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band XI or   | 1452.9 MHz   |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 11           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 698 -- 716   | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band XII or  | MHz          |              |              |      |
|              |              |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 12           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 777 -- 787   | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band XIII or | MHz          |              |              |      |
|              |              |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 13           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA FDD     | 788 -- 798   | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band XIV or  | MHz          |              |              |      |
|              |              |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 14           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| E-UTRA Band  | 704 -- 716   | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| 17           | MHz          |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA TDD in  | 1900 -- 1920 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band a) or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 33           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA TDD in  | 2010 -- 2025 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band a) or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 34           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA TDD in  | 1850 -- 1910 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band b) or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 35           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA TDD in  | 1930 -- 1990 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band b) or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 36           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA TDD in  | 1910 -- 1930 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band c) or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 37           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| UTRA TDD in  | 2570 -- 2620 | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| Band d) or   | MHz          |              |              |      |
| E-UTRA Band  |              |              |              |      |
| 38           |              |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| E-UTRA Band  | 1880 --      | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| 39           | 1920MHz      |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+
| E-UTRA Band  | 2300 --      | -71 dBm      | 100 kHz      |      |
| 40           | 2400MHz      |              |              |      |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+------+

NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this clause,
the coexistence requirements in Table 6.1.5.2.1-1 do not apply for the
10 MHz frequency range immediately outside the HeNB transmit frequency
range of a downlink operating band. This is also the case when the
transmit frequency range is adjacent to the Band for the co-location
requirement in the table. The current state-of-the-art technology does
not allow a single generic solution for co-location with other system on
adjacent frequencies for 30dB BS-BS minimum coupling loss. However,
there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used. These
techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 \[9\].

### 6.1.6 Transmitter intermodulation 

The transmitter intermodulation requirement is a measure of the
capability of the transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in
its non linear elements caused by presence of the own transmit signal
and an interfering signal reaching the transmitter via the antenna. The
requirement applies during the transmitter ON period and the transmitter
transient period.

#### 6.1.6.1 Minimum requirement

The transmitter intermodulation level is the power of the
intermodulation products when an interfering signal is injected into the
antenna connector. The wanted signal channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ shall
be the maximum bandwidth supported by the base station. The offset of
the interfering signal from the wanted signal shall be as in
Table 6.1.6.1‑1.

Table 6.1.6.1-1 Interfering and wanted signals for the Transmitter
intermodulation requirement

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Parameter                        | Value                            |
+==================================+==================================+
| Wanted signal                    | E-UTRA signal of maximum channel |
|                                  | bandwidth BW~Channel~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Interfering signal type          | E-UTRA signal of channel         |
|                                  | bandwidth 5 MHz                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Interfering signal level         | Mean power level 30 dB below the |
|                                  | mean power of the wanted signal  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Interfering signal centre        | -BW~Channel~ /2 -- 12.5 MHz      |
| frequency offset from wanted     |                                  |
| signal carrier centre frequency  | -BW~Channel~ /2 -- 7.5 MHz       |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -BW~Channel~ /2 -- 2.5 MHz       |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | BW~Channel~ /2 + 2.5 MHz         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | BW~Channel~ /2 + 7.5 MHz         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | BW~Channel~ /2 + 12.5 MHz        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE: Interfering signal         |                                  |
| positions that are partially or  |                                  |
| completely outside of the        |                                  |
| downlink operating band of the   |                                  |
| base station are excluded from   |                                  |
| the requirement.                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

The transmitter intermodulation level shall not exceed the unwanted
emission limits in subclause 6.1.3, 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 in the presence of
an interfering signal according to Table 6.1.6.1-1. The measurement may
be limited to frequencies on which third and fifth order intermodulation
products appear, considering the width of these products.

6.2 Receiver characteristics
----------------------------

### 6.2.1 Reference sensitivity level

Reference sensitivity level is the minimum mean power received at the
antenna connector at which a throughput requirement shall be met for a
specified reference measurement channel. The main purpose to define the
reference sensitivity requirement is to verify the receiver noise
figure. Receiver noise figure will affect the uplink performance of
macrocell and HeNB itself desensitization. These impacts could be
studied by system level simulations.

#### 6.2.1.1 Uplink performance degradation of macrocell

##### 6.2.1.1.1 Simulation setup

The simulation parameters and assumptions are discussed and agreed on in
RAN4 for HeNB (detailed information could be got in R4-092042). The
hierarchical deployment scenario is illustrated in Figure 6.2.1.1.1-1.
100 HeNBs are deployed in a sector and each has one active HUE. Since
the ACLR of UE is 30dB, the ACIR is assumed to be 30dB for adjacent
interference calculation.

![](media/image28.png)

Figure 6.2.1.1.1‑1 Hierarchical deployment scenario of macrocell and
HeNB

In the simulations, the uplink power control scheme described in
TS36.211 \[4\] is used. The noise figure will affect the uplink MCS
selection and finally result in different output power setting. High
output power of HUE may result in performance degradation of the
macrocell. Therefore, the noise figure should be well planned to ensure
the uplink performance of macrocell.

##### 6.2.1.1.2 Simulation results

The noise floor of macro eNB with 10MHz bandwidth is about -100 dBm
(-174 + 60 + 9.5 + 5 = -99.5 dBm). Therefore, the noise floor of HeNB in
the simulation is assumed to be in the range from -99 dBm to -79 dBm. As
a function of HeNB noise floor, the relative uplink throughput loss of
macrocell is shown in Figure 6.2.1.1.2-1.

![](media/image29.png)

Figure 6.2.1.1.2‑1 Relative uplink throughput loss versus noise floor

It is important to control the noise floor in a reasonable range to
minimise the impact on uplink performance of macrocell operating in
adjacent channel. Assuming the maximum allowed performance degradation
is 3% \[10\], compared to macro eNB, it will desensitize the HeNB
reference sensitivity by 10 to 13 dB, which corresponds to a noise floor
of -89dBm and -86dBm.

#### 6.2.1.2 HeNB desensitization

In this section, the impact on sensitivity degradation of HeNB due to
interference from MUE is simulated. The simulation assumptions and
deployment scenarios are the same as section 6.3.1.1. In the
simulations, one MUE occupying the whole uplink bandwidth (10MHz) is
randomly placed in the building block where HeNBs are deployed and no
RoT control is considered for macrocell. In order to study the impact of
different output power of MUE, the building block with HeNBs and MUE is
placed in R/2 and R respectively, where R is the radius of the
macrocell.

Figure 6.2.1.2-1 gives the simulation results of uplink noise rise of
HeNB versus different block locations. The blue curve represents noise
rise due to uplink interference from other HUEs and the red together
with green curve represent additional noise rise due to uplink
interference from MUE. The additional noise rise is calculated based on
40% HeNBs suffering from the highest interference. Seen from the
results, we can find that the additional noise rise is about 9 dB in the
worst case (the MUE is located in cell edge with high output power, D =
R) and 5.5 dB in a normal case (the distance between building block and
macro eNB is R/2). Therefore, according to the simulation result shown
in Figure 6.2.1.2-1, compared with macro eNB, 7 to 8 dB desensitization
seems to be a good tradeoff for TD-LTE HeNB.

![](media/image30.png)

Figure 6.2.1.2‑1 Noise rise versus different HeNB locations

For another approach in statistics, Figure 6.2.1.2-2 and Figure6.2.1.2-3
demonstrates the CDF of HeNB noise rise with MUE being in R/2 and R
respectively. It is observed that the percentage of HeNBs with the
highest interference from MUE have very big impact on the maximum
tolerable noise rise. In Table 6.2.1.2-1 some noise rise values are
summarize for different percentage of HeNB in statistics. If we decide
HeNB noise rise based on 40% HeNBs suffering from the highest
interference, the HeNB sensitivity can be degraded by 7\~9dB.

![](media/image31.png)

Figure 6.2.1.2-2 HeNB noise rise CDF, MUE distance from MeNB D=R/2

![](media/image32.png)

Figure 6.2.1.2-3 HeNB noise rise CDF, MUE distance from MeNB D=R

Table 6.2.1.2-1 Summary of HeNB noise rise due to MUE interference

  Probability of HeNB that observe highest interference   MUE distance from MeNB, D=R/2   MUE distance from MeNB, D=R(worst case)
  ------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  50%                                                     2.5dB                           3.59dB
  40%                                                     7.43dB                          9.4dB
  30%                                                     14.9dB                          17.14dB

#### 6.2.1.3 Minimum requirement

The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in Annex A in TS36.104 with parameters
specified in Table 6.2.1.3-1.

Table 6.2.1.3-1: HeNB reference sensitivity levels

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| E-UTRA               | Reference            | Reference            |
|                      | measurement channel  | sensitivity power    |
| channel bandwidth    |                      | level, PREFSENS      |
| \[MHz\]              |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | \[dBm\]              |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 1.4                  | FRC A1-1 in Annex    | -98.8                |
|                      | A.1                  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 3                    | FRC A1-2 in Annex    | -95.0                |
|                      | A.1                  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5                    | FRC A1-3 in Annex    | -93.5                |
|                      | A.1                  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10                   | FRC A1-3 in Annex    | -93.5                |
|                      | A.1\*                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 15                   | FRC A1-3 in Annex    | -93.5                |
|                      | A.1\*                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 20                   | FRC A1-3 in Annex    | -93.5                |
|                      | A.1\*                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Note\*: P~REFSENS~   |                      |                      |
| is the power level   |                      |                      |
| of a single instance |                      |                      |
| of the reference     |                      |                      |
| measurement channel. |                      |                      |
| This requirement     |                      |                      |
| shall be met for     |                      |                      |
| each consecutive     |                      |                      |
| application of a     |                      |                      |
| single instance of   |                      |                      |
| FRC A1-3 mapped to   |                      |                      |
| disjoint frequency   |                      |                      |
| ranges with a width  |                      |                      |
| of 25 resource       |                      |                      |
| blocks each          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

### 6.2.2 Dynamic range

The impact of co-channel uplink interference from an uncoordinated UE on
the HeNB needs to be studied to derive a reasonable dynamic range
requirement. The co-channel interference from an uncoordinated macro UE
(MUE) and home UE (HUE) are studied based on deterministic analysis and
system-level simulations respectively in the following sections.

#### 6.2.2.1 Deterministic analysis

The assumed scenario for coexistence with uncoordinated MUE is described
in Figure 6.2.2.1-1. The HeNB (CSG) is located on a table in an
apartment. A MUE is placed in the same apartment and establishes a call
with the macro BS.

![](media/image33.emf)

Figure 6.2.2.1-1 Assumed interference scenario for coexistence with
uncoordinated UE

HeNB will cause a coverage hole (dead zone) to the co-channel deployed
macrocell if received interference power at MUE exceeds the decoding
threshold specified in TS36.101 \[6\]. The size of dead zone is
determined by the output power of HeNB and the received wanted signal
power of macro cell. The extension of the dead zone is restricted to be
within several meters. The path loss model listed in equation
(6.2.6.2-1) is used to determine the minimum distance that the MUE is
able to go close to the HeNB. Figure 6.2.2.1-2 gives the relationship
between the separation distance and received interference power level at
HeNB antenna port. It\'s proposed to set the maximum received
interference power level to -38dBm assuming 6 meters separation distance
(dead zone) and 23dBm (PC 3 MUE) maximum output power.

![](media/image34.png)

Figure 6.2.2.1-2 Minimum separation distance

#### 6.2.2.2 System-level simulations

The assumed scenario and simulation assumptions are the same as section
6.2.1.1.1. The hierarchical deployment scenario of macrocell and HeNB is
illustrated in Figure 6.2.2.2-1. One HeNB building block is randomly
placed in a sector.

![](media/image28.png)

Figure 6.2.2.2-1 Hierarchical deployment scenario of macrocell and HeNB

Both co-channel interference from uncoordinated HUE and MUE are
considered in our study. The MUE is located in the cell border and
establishes a call with maximum output power. Fifty HUEs are randomly
placed into the building block and each HeNB has an active user. The
co-channel interference caused by MUE and HUE are defined as
interference over thermal noise (IoT). In our simulations, uplink power
control scheme described in TS36.211 \[4\] is used (Alpha = 1.0, P0 =
-106dBm/RB). The simulation results are illustrated in Figure 6.2.2.2-2.
The red line and blue line represent IoT level caused by other HUE and
both other HUE and uncoordinated MUE respectively. Seen from the
simulation results, we can get the following conclusions.

• Due to the limit coverage and deployment scenario, the HUE is very
close to HeNB in most of cases and maintains the connection at low power
level. Therefore, the main interference comes from the uncoordinated
MUE.

• It\'s proposed to set the maximum IoT to 55dB to make sure the HeNB
could suffer the interference from other HUE and uncoordinated MUE in
most cases (99%).

![](media/image35.emf)![](media/image36.emf)

Figure 6.2.2.2-2 IoT level of HeNB

#### 6.2.2.3 Minimum requirement

The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in Annex A with parameters specified in
Table 6.2.2.3-1.

Table 6.2.2.3-1: Dynamic range

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-UTRA      | Reference   | Wanted      | Interfering | Type of     |
|             | measurement | signal mean | signal mean | interfering |
| channel     | channel     | power       | power       | signal      |
| bandwidth   |             | \[dBm\]     | \[dBm\] /   |             |
| \[MHz\]     |             |             | BW~Config~  |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| 1.4         | FRC A2-1 in | -31.8       | -44.2       | AWGN        |
|             | Annex A.2   |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | FRC A2-2 in | -27.9       | -40.2       | AWGN        |
|             | Annex A.2   |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 5           | FRC A2-3 in | -25.7       | -38         | AWGN        |
|             | Annex A.2   |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 10          | FRC A2-3 in | -25.7       | -35         | AWGN        |
|             | Annex A.2\* |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 15          | FRC A2-3 in | -25.7       | -33.2       | AWGN        |
|             | Annex A.2\* |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20          | FRC A2-3 in | -25.7       | -31.9       | AWGN        |
|             | Annex A.2\* |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

### 6.2.3 Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) and narrow-band blocking

Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an
adjacent channel signal with a specified centre frequency offset of the
interfering signal to the band edge of a victim system. The HeNB
receiver must have the ability to against the adjacent channel
interference from the uncoordinated macrocell user. The following
sections give the study results.

#### 6.2.3.1 Simulation assumptions

The assumed coexistence scenario of macrocell and HeNB is illustrated in
Figure 6.2.3.1-1. The HeNB and macro eNodeB (MeNB) are working in
adjacent channel. The HeNB building block is located in the cell border
and 10 MUEs are randomly placed in each sector. Detailed deployment
parameters are listed in Table 6.2.3.1-1.

![](media/image37.emf)

Figure 6.2.3.1-1 Assumed interference scenario for coexistence with
uncoordinated UE(s)

Table 6.2.3.1-1 Simulation parameters

  Macro cell parameters                     Value
  ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  Cellular Layout                           Hexagonal grid, 3 sectors per site, reuse 1.
  Inter-site distance                       500 m
  UE power class                            23 dBm (200 mW)
  UE distribution                           80% inside the building
  HeNB parameters                           Value
  Number of HeNB per row                    10
  Number of blocks per sector               1
  Number of floors per block                6
  Number of HeNB                            50
  activation ratio                          100%
  Maximum output power                      20dBm
  Other parameters                          Value
  Propagation model                         PL(dB) = 127+30log10(R/1000), R in m
  Log-normal shadowing standard deviation   10 dB

#### 6.2.3.2 Simulation results

The macro UE will be blocked when the adjacent channel interference
power is larger than -20dBm (assuming 5dB margin based on minimum ACS
requirement specified in TS36.101 \[6\]). Assuming the maximum output
power of HeNB is 20dBm, we can get a minimum separation of 40dB between
HeNB and MUE. UEs receiving higher interference than a blocking
threshold of -20dBm will be removed from the UL interference statistics.

Figure 6.2.3.2-1 and 6.2.3.2-2 gives the uplink interference statistics
caused by uncoordinated macro UE. Based on the simulation results, we
proposed to define the adjacent channel interference level to -28dBm
(24dB higher than EUTRA macro BS) which results in about 1% blocking
probability of HeNB.

![](media/image38.emf)

Figure 6.2.3.2-1 CDF of UL interference

![](media/image39.emf)

Figure 6.2.3.2-2 CDF of UL interference (Zoom in view)

#### 6.2.3.3 Minimum requirements

The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to
the BS antenna input as specified in Tables 6.2.3.3-1 and 6.2.3.3-2 for
narrowband blocking and in Table 6.2.3.3-3 for ACS. The reference
measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in
Table 6.2.1.3-1 for each channel bandwidth and further specified in
Annex A of TS36.104 \[5\].

Table 6.2.3.3-1: Narrowband blocking requirement

  Wanted signal mean power \[dBm\]                                                       Interfering signal mean power \[dBm\]   Type of interfering signal
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  P~REFSENS~ + 14dB\*                                                                    -33                                     See Table 6.2.3.3-2
  Note\*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the channel bandwidth as specified in Table 6.2.1.3-1.                                           

Table 6.2.3.3-2: Interfering signal for Narrowband blocking requirement

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| E-UTRA               | Interfering RB       | Type of interfering  |
|                      | centre frequency     | signal               |
| Assigned BW \[MHz\]  | offset to the        |                      |
|                      | channel edge of the  |                      |
|                      | wanted signal        |                      |
|                      | \[kHz\]              |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 1.4                  | 252.5+m\*180,        | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA       |
|                      |                      | signal, 1 RB\*       |
|                      | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 3                    | 247.5+m\*180,        | 3 MHz E-UTRA signal, |
|                      |                      | 1 RB\*               |
|                      | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 7,  |                      |
|                      | 10, 13               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5                    | 342.5+m\*180,        | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, |
|                      |                      | 1 RB\*               |
|                      | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9,  |                      |
|                      | 14, 19, 24           |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10                   | 347.5+m\*180,        | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, |
|                      |                      | 1 RB\*               |
|                      | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9,  |                      |
|                      | 14, 19, 24           |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 15                   | 352.5+m\*180,        | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, |
|                      |                      | 1 RB\*               |
|                      | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9,  |                      |
|                      | 14, 19, 24           |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 20                   | 342.5+m\*180,        | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, |
|                      |                      | 1 RB\*               |
|                      | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9,  |                      |
|                      | 14, 19, 24           |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Note\*: Interfering  |                      |                      |
| signal consisting of |                      |                      |
| one resource block   |                      |                      |
| adjacent to the      |                      |                      |
| wanted signal        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table 6.2.3.3-3: Adjacent channel selectivity

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-UTRA      | Wanted      | Interfering | Interfering | Type of     |
|             | signal mean | signal mean | signal      | interfering |
| channel     | power       | power       | centre      | signal      |
| bandwidth   | \[dBm\]     | \[dBm\]     | frequency   |             |
| \[MHz\]     |             |             | offset from |             |
|             |             |             | the channel |             |
|             |             |             | edge of the |             |
|             |             |             | wanted      |             |
|             |             |             | signal      |             |
|             |             |             | \[MHz\]     |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| 1.4         | P~REFSENS~  | -28         | 0.7025      | 1.4MHz      |
|             | + 27dB\*    |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | P~REFSENS~  | -28         | 1.5075      | 3MHz E-UTRA |
|             | + 24dB\*    |             |             | signal      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 5           | P~REFSENS~  | -28         | 2.5025      | 5MHz E-UTRA |
|             | + 22dB\*    |             |             | signal      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 10          | P~REFSENS~  | -28         | 2.5075      | 5MHz E-UTRA |
|             | + 22dB\*    |             |             | signal      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 15          | P~REFSENS~  | -28         | 2.5125      | 5MHz E-UTRA |
|             | + 22dB\*    |             |             | signal      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20          | P~REFSENS~  | -28         | 2.5025      | 5MHz E-UTRA |
|             | + 22dB\*    |             |             | signal      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Note\*:     |             |             |             |             |
| P~REFSENS~  |             |             |             |             |
| depends on  |             |             |             |             |
| the channel |             |             |             |             |
| bandwidth   |             |             |             |             |
| as          |             |             |             |             |
| specified   |             |             |             |             |
| in          |             |             |             |             |
| Table       |             |             |             |             |
|  6.2.1.3-1. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

### 6.2.4 Blocking characteristics

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an
unwanted interferer. The HeNB receiver must have the ability to against
the interference from uncoordinated UE and other co-location HNB/HeNB.
The following sections give the study results.

#### 6.2.4.1 General blocking requirement

The general blocking requirement consists of in-band blocking and
out-of-band blocking. The unwanted interferer is presented by E-UTRA
signal for in-band blocking and a CW signal for out-of-band blocking.

In E-UTRA \[8\], the mean power of the E-UTRA interfering signal is
equal to -43dBm which is a compromise between the 30dBm and 24dBm
maximum output power assumption in TR36.942 \[9\] under worst case MCL
condition.

The assumed coexistence scenario of macrocell and HeNB is illustrated in
Figure 6.2.4.1-1. The HeNB and macro eNodeB (MeNB) are working in
adjacent channel. The HeNB building block is located in the cell border
and 10 MUEs are randomly placed in each sector. Detailed deployment
parameters are listed in Table 6.2.4.1-1.

![](media/image37.emf)

Figure 6.2.4.1-1 Assumed interference scenario for coexistence with
uncoordinated UE(s)

Table 6.2.4.1-1 Simulation parameters

  Macro cell parameters                     Value
  ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  Cellular Layout                           Hexagonal grid, 3 sectors per site, reuse 1.
  Inter-site distance                       500 m
  UE power class                            23 dBm (200 mW)
  UE distribution                           80% inside the building
  HeNB parameters                           Value
  Number of HeNB per row                    10
  Number of blocks per sector               1
  Number of floors per block                6
  Number of HeNB                            50
  activation ratio                          100%
  Maximum output power                      20dBm
  Other parameters                          Value
  Propagation model                         PL(dB) = 127+30log10(R/1000), R in m
  Log-normal shadowing standard deviation   10 dB

The macro UE will be blocked when the interference power is larger than
-25dBm (assuming 5dB margin based on minimum blocking requirement
specified in TS36.101 \[6\]). Assuming the maximum output power of HeNB
is 20dBm, we can get a minimum separation of 45dB between HeNB and MUE.
UEs receiving higher interference than a blocking threshold of -25dBm
will be removed from the UL interference statistics.

Figure 6.2.4.1-2 and 6.2.4.1-3 gives the uplink interference statistics
caused by uncoordinated macro UE. Based on the simulation results, we
proposed to define the channel interference level to -27dBm for blocking
requirement which results in about 0.8% blocking probability of HeNB. In
the meantime, we observe that -15dBm out-of-band blocking requirement
seems to be also sufficient for HeNB.

![](media/image40.emf)

Figure 6.2.4.1-2 CDF of UL interference

![](media/image41.emf)

Figure 6.2.4.1-3 CDF of UL interference (Zoom in view)

##### 6.2.4.1.1 Minimum requirement

The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to
BS antenna input using the parameters in Table 6.2.4.1.1-1 and
6.2.4.1.1-2. The reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is
identified in Table 6.2.1.3-1 for each channel bandwidth and further
specified in Annex A of TS36.104.

Table 6.2.4.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for HeNB

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Oper  | C     | I     | W     | I     | Type  |       |       |
| ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of    |       |       |
| Band  | Freq  | ering | S     | ering | I     |       |       |
|       | uency | S     | ignal | s     | nterf |       |       |
|       | of    | ignal | mean  | ignal | ering |       |       |
|       | I     | mean  | power | c     | S     |       |       |
|       | nterf | power | \[    | entre | ignal |       |       |
|       | ering | \[    | dBm\] | freq  |       |       |       |
|       | S     | dBm\] |       | uency |       |       |       |
|       | ignal |       |       | mi    |       |       |       |
|       | \[    |       |       | nimum |       |       |       |
|       | MHz\] |       |       | freq  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | uency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | o     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ffset |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ch    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | annel |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | edge  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | w     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | anted |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | s     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ignal |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \[    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MHz\] |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1-7,  | (     | to    | (F    | -27   | P~REF | See   | See   |
| 9-11, | F~UL\ |       | ~UL\_ |       | SENS~ | table | table |
| 1     | _low~ |       | high~ |       | +1    | 6.2   | 6     |
| 3-14, | -20)  |       | +20)  |       | 4dB\* | .4.1. | .2.4. |
| 33-40 |       |       |       |       |       | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 1     | to    | (     | -15   | P~REF |      | CW    |
|       |       |       | F~UL\ |       | SENS~ |       | ca    |
|       | (F    | to    | _low~ |       | +1    |       | rrier |
|       | ~UL\_ |       | -20)  |       | 4dB\* |       |       |
|       | high~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | +20)  |       | 12750 |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 8     | (     | to    | (F    | -27   | P~REF | See   | See   |
|       | F~UL\ |       | ~UL\_ |       | SENS~ | table | table |
|       | _low~ |       | high~ |       | +1    | 6     | 6     |
|       | -20)  |       | +10)  |       | 4dB\* | .2.4. | .2.4. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 1     | to    | (     | -15   | P~REF |      | CW    |
|       |       |       | F~UL\ |       | SENS~ |       | ca    |
|       | (F    | to    | _low~ |       | +1    |       | rrier |
|       | ~UL\_ |       | -20)  |       | 4dB\* |       |       |
|       | high~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | +10)  |       | 12750 |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 12    | (     | to    | (F    | -27   | P~REF | See   | See   |
|       | F~UL\ |       | ~UL\_ |       | SENS~ | table | table |
|       | _low~ |       | high~ |       | +1    | 6     | 6     |
|       | -20)  |       | +12)  |       | 4dB\* | .2.4. | .2.4. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 1     | to    | (     | -15   | P~REF |      | CW    |
|       |       |       | F~UL\ |       | SENS~ |       | ca    |
|       | (F    | to    | _low~ |       | +1    |       | rrier |
|       | ~UL\_ |       | -20)  |       | 4dB\* |       |       |
|       | high~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | +12)  |       | 12750 |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 17    | (     | to    | (F    | -27   | P~REF | See   | See   |
|       | F~UL\ |       | ~UL\_ |       | SENS~ | table | table |
|       | _low~ |       | high~ |       | +1    | 6     | 6     |
|       | -20)  |       | +18)  |       | 4dB\* | .2.4. | .2.4. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 1     | to    | (     | -15   | P~REF |      | CW    |
|       |       |       | F~UL\ |       | SENS~ |       | ca    |
|       | (F    | to    | _low~ |       | +1    |       | rrier |
|       | ~UL\_ |       | -20)  |       | 4dB\* |       |       |
|       | high~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | +18)  |       | 12750 |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| No    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| te\*: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| P~REF |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SENS~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pends |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ch    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| annel |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6.2.1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .3-1. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 6.2.4.1.1-2: Interfering signals for blocking performance
requirement for HeNB

+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| E-UTRA             | Interfering signal    | Type of interfering   |
|                    | centre frequency      | signal                |
| channel BW \[MHz\] | minimum offset to the |                       |
|                    | channel edge of the   |                       |
|                    | wanted signal \[MHz\] |                       |
+====================+=======================+=======================+
| 1.4                | 2.1                   | 1.4MHz E-UTRA signal  |
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| 3                  | 4.5                   | 3MHz E-UTRA signal    |
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| 5                  | 7.5                   | 5MHz E-UTRA signal    |
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| 10                 | 7.5                   | 5MHz E-UTRA signal    |
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| 15                 | 7.5                   | 5MHz E-UTRA signal    |
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| 20                 | 7.5                   | 5MHz E-UTRA signal    |
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+

#### 6.2.4.2 Co-location with other HNB/HeNB

The assumed scenario for co-location with other HNB/HeNB is described in
Figure 6.2.4.2-1. Two HeNBs are placed in different rooms and opposite
to a wall.

![](media/image27.emf)

Figure 6.2.4.2-1 Assumed interference scenario for co-location with
other HNB/HeNB

The minimum coupling loss between two co-located HeNBs is assumed to be
47dB.Assuming the maximum output power of HeNB is also 20dBm as HNB, the
co-location blocking requirement to against other nearby cross-band
HNB/HeNB will be -27dBm.

Based on above analysis, it\'s proposed to set the co-location blocking
requirement to -27dBm to against other nearby cross-band HNB/HeNB. In
addition, the power difference between wanted signal and interference
signal is proposed to be the same as EUTRA macro BS co-location blocking
test. These requirements will be specified in section 7.6.2.1 of
TS36.104 \[5\].

### 6.2.5 Receiver Intermodulation 

#### 6.2.5.1 Analysis

Receiver inter-modulation can occur when two interfering signals with a
particular relationship are applied to a BS receiver. Two large
interfering signals at the same time occur less frequently than a single
interfering signal. Due to lower probability of two large interfering
signals, the power level of the interfering signals for the
inter-modulation requirement should be lower compared to Blocking
requirement. For the Macro eNB, the level of IM interfering signals is
-52dBm which is 9 dB lower compared to Blocking requirement of -43dBm.
It is proposed to use the same relative values also for the home eNode
B.

In the TR, the blocking interference level for Home eNode B is proposed
to be -27dBm. Adopting the same relative values of 9dB also for Home
eNode B inter-modulation requirement, the following interfering signals
level for inter-modulation is proposed:

\- Interfering signals: -36 dBm for both modulated and CW interferer.

As for the wanted signal level, it is proposed to keep the same relative
value with interfering signal as that for MeNB in order not to put more
stringent requirement for HeNB. So the following wanted signal level is
proposed.

\- Wanted signal: P~REFSENS~+14dB

#### 6.2.5.2 Minimum requirement

The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted signal at the assigned channel
frequency and two interfering signals coupled to the BS antenna input,
with the conditions specified in Tables 6.2.5.2-1 and 6.2.5.2-2 for
intermodulation performance and in Table 6.2.5.2-3 for narrowband
intermodulation performance. The reference measurement channel for the
wanted signal is identified in section 6.3.1 for each channel bandwidth
and further specified in Annex A of \[5\].

Table 6.2.5.2-1: Intermodulation performance requirement

  Wanted signal mean power \[dBm\]                                                     Interfering signal mean power \[dBm\]   Type of interfering signal
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  P~REFSENS~ + 14dB\*                                                                  -36                                     See Table 6.2.5.2-2
  Note\*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the channel bandwidth as specified in section 6.3.1.                                           

Table 6.2.5.2-2: Interfering signal for Intermodulation performance
requirement

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| E-UTRA               | Interfering signal   | Type of interfering  |
|                      | centre frequency     | signal               |
| channel bandwidth    | offset from the      |                      |
| \[MHz\]              | channel edge of the  |                      |
|                      | wanted signal        |                      |
|                      | \[MHz\]              |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 1.4                  | 2.1                  | CW                   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | 4.9                  | 1.4MHz E-UTRA signal |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 3                    | 4.5                  | CW                   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | 10.5                 | 3MHz E-UTRA signal   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5                    | 7.5                  | CW                   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | 17.5                 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10                   | 7.5                  | CW                   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | 17.7                 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 15                   | 7.5                  | CW                   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | 18                   | 5MHz E-UTRA signal   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 20                   | 7.5                  | CW                   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | 18.2                 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table 6.2.5.2-3: Narrowband intermodulation performance requirement

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-UTRA      | Wanted      | Interfering | Interfering | Type of     |
|             | signal mean | signal mean | RB centre   | interfering |
| channel     | power       | p           | frequency   | signal      |
| bandwidth   | \[dBm\]     | ower\[dBm\] | offset from |             |
| \[MHz\]     |             |             | the channel |             |
|             |             |             | edge of the |             |
|             |             |             | wanted      |             |
|             |             |             | signal      |             |
|             |             |             | \[kHz\]     |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| 1.4         | P~REFSENS~  | -36         | 270         | CW          |
|             | + 14dB\*    |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | -36         | 790         | 1.4 MHz     |
|             |             |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 1   |
|             |             |             |             | RB\*\*      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | P~REFSENS~  | -36         | 275         | CW          |
|             | + 14dB\*    |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | -36         | 790         | 3.0 MHz     |
|             |             |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 1   |
|             |             |             |             | RB\*\*      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 5           | P~REFSENS~  | -36         | 360         | CW          |
|             | + 14dB\*    |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | -36         | 1060        | 5 MHz       |
|             |             |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 1   |
|             |             |             |             | RB\*\*      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 10          | P~REFSENS~  | -36         | 415         | CW          |
|             | + 14dB\*    |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | (\*\*\*)    |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | -36         | 1420        | 5 MHz       |
|             |             |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 1   |
|             |             |             |             | RB\*\*      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 15          | P~REFSENS~  | -36         | 380         | CW          |
|             | + 14dB\*    |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | (\*\*\*)    |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | -36         | 1600        | 5MHz E-UTRA |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 1   |
|             |             |             |             | RB\*\*      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20          | P~REFSENS~  | -36         | 345         | CW          |
|             | + 14dB\*    |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | (\*\*\*)    |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | -36         | 1780        | 5MHz E-UTRA |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 1   |
|             |             |             |             | RB\*\*      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Note\*:     |             |             |             |             |
| P~REFSENS~  |             |             |             |             |
| is related  |             |             |             |             |
| to the      |             |             |             |             |
| channel     |             |             |             |             |
| bandwidth   |             |             |             |             |
| as          |             |             |             |             |
| specified   |             |             |             |             |
| in section  |             |             |             |             |
| 6.3.1.      |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| Note\*\*:   |             |             |             |             |
| Interfering |             |             |             |             |
| signal      |             |             |             |             |
| consisting  |             |             |             |             |
| of one      |             |             |             |             |
| resource    |             |             |             |             |
| block       |             |             |             |             |
| positioned  |             |             |             |             |
| at the      |             |             |             |             |
| stated      |             |             |             |             |
| offset.     |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| Note\*\*\*: |             |             |             |             |
| This        |             |             |             |             |
| requirement |             |             |             |             |
| shall apply |             |             |             |             |
| only for a  |             |             |             |             |
| FRC A1-3 in |             |             |             |             |
| \[5\]       |             |             |             |             |
| mapped to   |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| frequency   |             |             |             |             |
| range at    |             |             |             |             |
| the channel |             |             |             |             |
| edge        |             |             |             |             |
| adjacent to |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| interfering |             |             |             |             |
| signals     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

### 6.2.6 In-channel selectivity

Receiver in-channel selectivity requirement is a measure of the receiver
ability to receive a wanted signal at its assigned resource block
locations in the presence of an interfering signal received at a larger
power spectral density.

#### 6.2.6.1 Analysis

For Home eNode B, the same method as that for MeNB can be used for
defining this requirement. The UL signals are just defined for 2 users,
one being the \"wanted\" signal and the other one being the
\"interfering\" signal at elevated power. Regarding the interferer
level, a 16QAM \"interfering\" signal is proposed 25dB above its noise
floor to mask the impact of receiver\'s own noise floor. The \"wanted\"
signal was defined as a QPSK modulated FRC, for which ≥95% T-put should
be achieved in the presence of the interfering signal. The only
difference between MeNB and HeNB is the power level setting for wanted
signal and interfering signal. Since the noise figure has been agreed as
13dB (8dB degradation compared to MeNB), the wanted signal and
interfering signal levels for home eNode B is shown in Table 6.2.6.1-1.

Table 6.2.6.1-1: RB allocations and power settings for wanted signal and
interferer for HeNB

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-UTRA      | RBs         | RBs         | Wanted      | Interfering |
| channel BW  |             |             | signal      | signal      |
| \[MHz\]     | Wanted      | Interfering | level       | level       |
|             | signal      | signal      | \[dBm\]     | \[dBm\]     |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| 1.4         | 3           | 3           | -98.9       | -79         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | 9           | 6           | -94.1       | -76         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 5           | 15          | 10          | -92.0       | -73         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 10          | 25          | 25          | -90.5       | -69         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 15          | 25          | 25          | -90.5       | -69         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20          | 25          | 25          | -90.5       | -69         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

#### 6.2.6.2 Minimum requirement

The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in Annex A of \[5\] with parameters
specified in Table 6.2.6.2-1 for HeNB.

Table 6.2.6.2-1 E-UTRA Home BS in-channel selectivity

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-UTRA      | Reference   | Wanted      | Interfering | Type of     |
|             | measurement | signal mean | signal mean | interfering |
| channel     | channel\*\* | power       | power       | signal      |
| bandwidth   |             | \[dBm\]     | \[dBm\]     |             |
| (MHz)       |             |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| 1.4         | A1-4 in     | -98.9       | -79         | 1.4 MHz     |
|             | Annex A.1   |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 3   |
|             |             |             |             | RBs         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | A1-5 in     | -94.1       | -76         | 3 MHz       |
|             | Annex A.1   |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 6   |
|             |             |             |             | RBs         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 5           | A1-2 in     | -92.0       | -73         | 5 MHz       |
|             | Annex A.1   |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 10  |
|             |             |             |             | RBs         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 10          | A1-3 in     | -90.5       | -69         | 10 MHz      |
|             | Annex A.1   |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 25  |
|             |             |             |             | RBs         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 15          | A1-3 in     | -90.5       | -69         | 15 MHz      |
|             | Annex A.1\* |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 25  |
|             |             |             |             | RBs\*       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20          | A1-3 in     | -90.5       | -69         | 20 MHz      |
|             | Annex A.1\* |             |             | E-UTRA      |
|             |             |             |             | signal, 25  |
|             |             |             |             | RBs\*       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Note\*:     |             |             |             |             |
| Wanted and  |             |             |             |             |
| interfering |             |             |             |             |
| signal are  |             |             |             |             |
| placed      |             |             |             |             |
| adjacently  |             |             |             |             |
| around DC   |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| Note\*\*:   |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| reference   |             |             |             |             |
| channel     |             |             |             |             |
| A1-x is     |             |             |             |             |
| defined in  |             |             |             |             |
| \[5\]       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

6.3 Performance requirement
---------------------------

Compared with macro eNodeB, HeNB is usually deployed for indoor
scenarios. The propagation conditions will contain more multi-paths with
smaller multi-path delay due to the rich scattering characteristic of
indoor environment. In LTE systems, which is based on multiple carrier
frequencies with CP to combat the multi-path fading, the indoor
demodulation performance can be expected at least as good as that under
outdoor channel model. Moreover, from a general point of view, HeNB can
also be deployed for small-scale enterprise solutions. An outdoor hot
spot model without very large multi-path delay, e.g. EVA, should also be
considered for demodulation performance.

Furthermore, UE attached to HeNB is usually considered to move at a
speed no faster than 30km/h, which corresponds to a maximum Doppler
frequency of about 70Hz. Thus, it is feasible to define the HeNB
performance requirements by utilizing some specific macro eNodeB test
cases with low speeds.

For multi-path fading propagation conditions shown in B.2 of TS36.104
\[5\], EPA and EVA model with a maximum Doppler frequency no larger than
70Hz is considered for TD-LTE HeNB demodulation performance and the
performance requirements remain the same as that in TS36.104 \[5\]
accordingly.

6.4 Synchronization requirement
-------------------------------

### 6.4.1 Synchronization Accuracy

#### 6.4.1.1 Synchronization error analysis

For LTE TDD, the inter-cell interferences of eNB (HeNB) to eNB (HeNB)
and UE to UE are related to the cell synchronization. In order to
overcome the above interferences, strict synchronization is required.
For HeNB, the interference case of UE to UE at the uplink-to-downlink
switch point is the crucial factor to the synchronization requirement
because of the limited coverage. At the switch point, two kinds of
interferences should be taken into account. One is MUE downlink
disturbed by HUE uplink, the other is HUE downlink disturbed by MUE
uplink.

If the HeNB coverage is up to tens meters, the synchronization error
should be smaller than 1us. For the network listening scheme, such
strict requirement will increase the implementation difficulty and
synchronization overhead. However, as the minimum cyclic prefix of LTE
is far larger than the sum of delay spread and propagation delay for
indoor scenarios, a little interference caused by inaccurate
synchronization will not result in performance degradation.

For LTE, there are two kinds of cyclic prefix (CP), i.e. the normal CP
and extend CP, with their periods listed in Table.6.4.1.1-1.

Table 6.4.1.1-1 the CP period of LTE

              Normal      Extend
  ----------- ----------- --------
  CP period   4.7/5.2us   16.7us

Since the most important application of HeNB focuses on the indoor
scenarios such as home and office, ITU indoor channel models \[12\] are
taken into account for reference, in which the maximum delay spreads of
LOS (light-of-sight) and NLOS (non light-of-sight) scenarios are listed
in Table.6.4.1.1-2.

Table 6.4.1.1-2 the delay spread of indoor channel

                         ITU InH LOS   ITU InH NLOS
  ---------------------- ------------- --------------
  Maximum delay spread   0.13us        0.225us

In addition, the propagation delay is limited up to 1us because of the
restricted transmission power and complex indoor scenarios. Thus, there
is

Thus in many scenarios, a 3 us synchronization requirement can be
adopted. The 3us requirement is also compatible with the macro cell. But
it is also important that practical synchronization schemes (including
GPS, IEEE 1588v2, open and closed loop network listening) are not
excluded. Thus, if the HeNB derives its synchronization from a larger
cell, then the propagation distance is larger and a different
synchronization requirement is required compared with that in small
cell.Therefore, it is important to have a synchronization requirement
that is strict and practical.

Network listening is one essential practical scheme, as it works when
GPS doesn\'t work (e.g. indoors) and IEEE 1588v2 is not available (e.g.
with consumer-grade backhaul). Network listening can be performed in
open loop or close loop fashion. Based on some studies in RAN4, the
advantages of open loop vs. closed loop are explained and it is
concluded that open loop network listening is essential for TD-LTE
HeNBs. When synchronization is acquired using open loop network
listening, the synchronizing HeNB is automatically offset by the
propagation delay compared to the donor eNB or HeNB. Some requirements
that take this fact into account are necessary. A 3us requirement for
small cells is based on a propagation delay of 1.67 us and an
implementation margin of 1.33 us. The same margin can be used in the
large cell scenario as well. This will result in a synchronization
requirement of 1.33 us + the propagation delay between the HeNB and the
donor cell.

It should be noted that the guard period in the DwPTS subframe should be
chosen so as to accommodate the propagation delay. The analysis in RAN4
shows that if the guard period is equal to twice the maximum propagation
delay, an additional timing advance can be used to prevent UE-UE
interference. The following figure demonstrates this. Note that
un-accessed UEs can not know the additional timing advance, and
therefore the UpPTS channel of un-accessed UEs must be disturbed by the
additional timing advance, but with a small additional timing advance,
this issue will be mitigated in some extent. The issue is specific to
the open-loop scheme, FSS. For close-loop scheme, the additional timing
advance is unnecessary.

Figure 6.4.1.1-1 (Void)

#### 6.4.1.2 Synchronization requirement

The synchronization requirement for a HeNB is defined as the difference
in radio frame start timing, measured at the transmit antenna
connectors, between the HeNB and any other HeNB or eNB which has
overlapping coverage. The synchronization requirement shall be set to 3
us in all cases, except when the HeNB gets its synchronization when
performing network listening off cells with propagation distance greater
than 500m. This requirement shall apply independent of the
synchronization technique used (GPS, IEEE 1588 v2, Network Listening).
 In scenarios where synchronization is obtained via network listening
off cells with propagation distance greater than 500m, the
synchronization requirement shall be *1.33 μs plus the propagation delay
between the HeNB and the cell selected as the network listening
synchronization source (e.g. when the propagation distance is 2.6km, the
synchronization requirement is 10 us). In terms of the network listening
synchronization source selection,* the best accurate synchronization
source to GNSS should be selected*.*

### 6.4.2 Techniques for Synchronization

Three synchronization techniques have been identified for HeNB
synchronization*.*

*GPS.* If a HeNB contains a GPS receiver and can acquire the GPS
synchronization signals, then GPS provides the most accurate
synchronization accuracy (on the order of 100ns). However, GPS receivers
do not always work in some important scenarios (e.g. indoors.)

*IEEE 1588 v2.* Under good backhaul conditions (e.g. operator controlled
fiber / Ethernet), IEEE 1588 v2 can provide sub-microsecond level
accuracy. However, such good backhaul conditions may not always be
possible. In particular backhauls over cable and DSL modems have
significant jitter and delay variations. Note that the upstream packet
delay δ~1~ is often not equal to the downstream delay δ~2~ creating an
error of (δ~1~ -- δ~2~)/2. This resulting error may be up to many
milliseconds, rendering IEEE 1588v2 restricted for the application of
TD-LTE synchronization.

*Network Listening.* Network listening can be used in scenarios where
GPS and IEEE 1588 v2 do not work. For this reason, network listening is
an essential synchronization scheme for TD-LTE HeNBs in those scenarios.

#### 6.4.2.1 Synchronization using Network Listening

The technique in which a HeNB derives its timing from a synchronized eNB
or HeNB (which in turn may be GNSS-synchronized) is referred to here as
\"synchronization using network listening.\" A HeNB that uses network
listening (say HeNB1) may utilize a synchronization or reference signal
from another eNB (say sync eNB) to derive its timing as in Fig.
6.4.2.1-1(a). Such single hop synchronization for HeNB is the most
common case under good macro coverage based on analysis in RAN4. But
when a HeNB can not acquire synchronization from a primary
synchronization source (an eNB or HeNB with GNSS synchronization) then
multiple hops could be supported. This concept is illustrated in Fig.
6.4.2.1-1(b) where HeNB2 acquires synchronization from HeNB1 which in
turn acquires synchronization from eNB.

In the case of multihop synchronization, the concept of synchronization
stratum can be introduced. The synchronization stratum of a particular
HeNB is defined as the smallest number of hops between the HeNB and the
GPS source. It should be noted that the synchronization stratum of a
particular HeNB is one greater than its donor (H)eNB, i.e., the (H)eNB
that it is tracking. In the figure below, sync eNB has stratum 0, HeNB1
has stratum 1 and HeNB2 has stratum 2.

![](media/image43.emf)![](media/image44.emf)

\(a\) (b)

Fig. 6.4.2.1-1 Synchronization using Network listening

The HeNB may periodically track one or more signals from the donor cell
(e.g. Primary and Secondary Synchronization Signals, Common Reference
Signal, Positioning Reference Signal) to maintain its synchronization.
Of course, tracking the PSS and SSS could come at the cost of some
backward compatibility since a HeNB would need to shut down its PSS/SSS
transmission to monitor the PSS/SSS of the donor (H)eNB. Two fully
backward compatible schemes for tracking the Common Reference Signal
(CRS) have been proposed, one that uses MBSFN subframes and one that
uses the guard period between DL and UL transmission. A description of
these schemes is given in the section 6.5.3.1.2 and 6.5.3.1.3.

##### 6.4.2.1.1 Interference Problems with Network Listening and Solutions

When a HeNB obtains synchronization through network listening, it has to
stop transmitting and monitor the signals of its donor (H)eNB, this
process is susceptible to interference. In particular, cells that are in
the vicinity of others using network listening may not be able to
receive the synchronization signals from a farther off cell due to
strong interference from these cells. This is shown in Fig. 6.4.2.1.1-1.

![](media/image45.emf)

Fig. 6.4.2.1.1-1 Interference problem in network listening

One solution is to use appropriate DL Power Control to mitigate the
interference from neighbour nodes when synchronization tracking. The
interference from neighbour cell will be controlled in an acceptable
level, which could ensure the network listening.

An alternate solution is to coordinate the tracking time between cells.
Fig. 6.4.2.1.1-2 shows an example in which the tracking times are
coordinated among different nodes. Here HeNB1 tracks sync eNB without
interference from HeNB2. Additionally, HeNB2 tracks the synchronization
signals from HeNB1. The results discussed in RAN4 show that virtually
all HeNBs can obtain synchronization via coordinated silence.

![](media/image46.emf)

Fig. 6.4.2.1.1-2 Interference problem mitigation using Coordinated
Silence

Note that synchronization maintenance can be done at very low
periodicity as the clock drifts are 250ppb or less. In order to achieve
satisfactory performance, the nodes must co-ordinate their silence
periods, and utilize these opportunities to achieve and maintain
synchronization. Coordinated information should be conveyed to the cells
for synchronization tracking meanwhile these cells should have an
initial common reference time, e.g. aligned SFN (system frame number),
to ensure the execution. This initial reference time including SFN could
be obtained at HeNB bootup by observing the time of the nearest cell,
which may or may not be the same cell that the HeNB chooses to track
later on.

##### 6.4.2.1.2 MBSFN Subframe based Network Listening

The proposed scheme uses MBSFN subframes for tracking synchronization.
An HeNB stops transmitting for a subframe to track synchronization. To
minimize the impact on UEs, the HeNBs declare this subframe to be an
MBSFN subframe. This method allows for multiple hops in the
synchronization path. Also, all the nodes can track in a coordinated
fashion (all declaring MBSFN subframes at the same time), thus
minimizing interference.

![](media/image47.png)

Fig. 6.4.2.1.2-1 Tracking using MBSFN Subframes

Furthermore, it ensures that the entire network uses the same
synchronization source (e.g. GNSS) and that loops are not created. This
is because each HeNB declares its stratum as one greater than that of
its donor (H)eNB. It should be noted that the stratum number of a HeNB
is self-configured, and that the HeNB tries to track the lowest
available stratum node. This in turn allows the HeNB to be as close to
GNSS time as possible. Furthermore, the stratum number is a dynamic
quantity that could vary with changing RF conditions (if HeNB1 in the
above example is turned off, then HeNB2 could obtain synchronization via
a different route, say eNB0 HeNB3 HeNB4 HeNB2, in which case it would
have a stratum number of 3.) A HeNB should preferably synchronize to the
lowest possible stratum. A flow chart to demonstrate deriving the
stratum and using MBSFN subframes for tracking is given in the
subsequent figure.

![](media/image48.png)

Fig. 6.4.2.1.2-2 HeNB Procedure for Synchronization using MBSFN
Subframes

The overhead incurred by this scheme depends on the number of hops and
would be equal to the number of hops times one subframe in every 320
subframes. (320ms corresponds to the highest configurable periodicity of
MBSFN subframes). For a stratum-1 HeNB, the overhead is a little under
0.3%. It should also be noted that the MBSFN subframe based method can
be used for FDD as well for deriving frequency synchronization (and
potentially time synchronization if required in future releases).

##### 6.4.2.1.3 TDD Special Subframe based Network Listening

To avoid asynchronous interference, another simple method is introduced
for TDD system to achieve HeNB synchronizing to macro layer eNB, which
there is no need HeNB install satellite receiver. In this solution, Home
eNB and macro layer eNBs utilize different special subframe
configuration, macro layer configure with more OFDM symbols in DwPTS,
and Home eNB with less OFDM symbols in DwPTS, so Home eNB can utilize
the GP to track macro layer eNB common reference signal (CRS) in DwPTS
without additionally impact on its normal transmission, and CRS tracing
can be done every radio frame to generate a statistic tuning value,
which ensure more robust synchronization. Meanwhile considered HeNB is
mainly used for providing high data rate service, the DL resource is
relative not stringent to provide such overhead for robust
synchronization.

With this solution HeNB can only read CRS for synchronization, however
this should be enough. When HeNB is power on, HeNB may follow the UE
cell search process and get the accurate synchronization from the macro
eNB while is assumed as accurate synchronization resource with satellite
receiver. And then symbol timing, radio frame timing and eNB cell ID can
be get by HeNB, which enable the HeNB conduct the aforementioned CRS
based synchronization tracking procedure, which is mainly a process to
track the synchronization on a finer time scale.

When HeNB is operating, its location is stable, so there is no need to
always repeat the cell search process to get the timing. Only tracking
the CRS periodically to maintain the synchronization with macro layer is
enough for HeNB.

There are two CP lengths defined in TS 36.211, so the analysis is
provided separately for the two cases.

**1. Normal CP case**

CRS on antenna port 0 and antenna port 1 are located in 1^st^ and 5^th^
OFDM symbol of each slot. Macro layer eNB can be configured unifiedly
with more DwPTS symbols (i.e. config1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, detailed
configurations are shown in Table 6.4.2.1.3-1). HeNB use other different
configuration to pair with macro layer configuration, such as config 0
or 5, in these configurations, HeNB only transmit 3 OFDM symbols. When
HeNB track the timing, after its DwPTS transmission finish, HeNB transit
to receiver state, normally the HeNB eNB DL-\>UL switching time is less
than 15us, one symbol is enough for the switching, HeNB will receive the
CRS from the 5^th^ OFDM symbol. Also by configuring both macro eNB
(config4) and HeNB (config2) with more symbols in DwPTS, the user data
transmission is improved, such as HeNB can start to receive CRS from the
12^th^ symbol of the special subframe.

Example of Macro eNB and HeNB configuration refer to Figure
6.4.2.1.3-1.Considering HeNB DL-\> UL switching time, HeNB can receive
macro eNB CRS in 5^th^ OFDM symbol successfully.

Figure 6.4.2.1.3-1: Normal CP case, Macro eNB and HeNB DwPTS/GP/UpPTS
configuration

Table 6.4.2.1.3-1: DwPT/GP/UpPTS configuration

  Config   Normal CP   Extended CP                        
  -------- ----------- ------------- ------- ------- ---- -------
           DwPTS       GP            UpPTS   DwPTS   GP   UpPTS
  **0**    3           10            1       3       8    1
  **1**    9           4             1       8       3    1
  **2**    10          3             1       9       2    1
  **3**    11          2             1       10      1    1
  **4**    12          1             1       3       7    2
  **5**    3           9             2       8       2    2
  **6**    9           3             2       9       1    2
  **7**    10          2             2                    
  **8**    11          1             2                    

**2. Extended CP case**

CRS on antenna port 0 and antenna port1 are located in 1^st^ and 4^th^
OFDM symbol of each slot. Macro layer eNB can configure with more DwPTS
symbols (i.e. config1, 2, 3, 5, 6). HeNB use different configuration,
such as config 0 or 4, in these configurations, HeNB only transmit 3
OFDM symbols. When HeNB track the timing, after it\'s DwPTS transmission
finish, HeNB transit to receiver state, normally the HeNB eNB DL-\>UL
switching time is less than 15us, one symbol is for the switching, HeNB
will receive the CRS from the 7^th^ OFDM symbol. Also by configuring
both macro eNB (config3) and HeNB (config1) with more symbols in DwPTS,
the user data transmission is approved, such as HeNB can start to
receive CRS 10^th^ symbol of the special subframe.

Example of Macro eNB and HeNB configuration refer to Figure 6.4.2.1.3-2.
Considering HeNB DL-\> UL switching time, HeNB can receive macro eNB CRS
in 7^th^ OFDM symbol successfully.

Figure 6.4.2.1.3-2: Extend CP case, Macro eNB and HeNB DwPTS/GP/UpPTS
configuration

This solution based on macro cell layer and HeNB layer deployed
different DwPTS/GP/UpPTS configurations. As for HeNB configuration, that
can be fixed by operator before distribution. There is no impact on the
air interface specifications. For two layers cell, only special subframe
configuration is different, there is no interference issue between macro
layer eNB and HeNB or related connected UE-UE. Also there is no backward
compatibility issue for Rel8 eNB and UE, only requirement is to home eNB
which need odell the cell search and track macro layer CRS function.
Tracking period can be set by the HeNB, for the oscillator frequency
stability is affected by the ambient temperature.

The feasibility of this scheme is relative to the macro cell
configuration. If macro layer eNBs are configured with max GP, there is
no way that a HeNB could use macro common reference signals for
synchronization tracking.

For the scenario that HeNB are not able to synchronize directly to an
eNB that is GNSS-synchronized, utilizing the special subframe
configuration pairs, this solution also can fulfill 2 hops
synchronization in some configurations. Take extended CP case for
example, macro cell can be set with configuration 3, the first hop HeNB
is set with configuration 1 or 5 and the second hop HeNB is set with
configuration 0 or 4.

##### 6.4.2.1.4 Indication of Stratum Level and Synchronization Status

The HeNB should be aware of its neighbours synchronization hierarchy
(stratum info), and then correspondingly decide its own stratum number.
Also, the HeNB needs to let others know its own synchronization status
and stratum info. Two solutions are proposed to fulfil this function as
below.

Note that while the solutions are described in the context of the
MBSFN-subframe based scheme, the use of these solutions for other
schemes (including schemes not listed in the TR) is not precluded.

RAN4 endorses both backhaul signalling and blind detection schemes for
indication of stratum level and synchronization status, and their
adoption depends on the operator deployment choice.

It is up to the operator to choose either backhaul signalling or blind
detection depending on the deployment.

##### 6.4.2.1.4.1 Stratum Indication Using Backhaul Signalling {#stratum-indication-using-backhaul-signalling .H6}

The optional backhaul signalling of time synchronization status and
stratum level are TDD HeNB specific. Optional only means that it is up
to the operator to decide whether to use the signalling or not depending
on the deployment.

An HeNB can get information of neighboring eNB\'s time synchronization
status and stratum level over the backhaul by using the S1-AP eNB
configuration transfer procedure and the S1-AP MME configuration
transfer procedure.

The HeNB\_1 initiates S1-AP eNB configuration transfer procedure by
sending the MME the eNB CONFIGURATION TRANSFER message containing the
target eNB ID and Time Sync Info request. The MME forwards the request
to the target eNB with the MME CONFIGURATION TRANSFER message.

When the (H)eNB\_2 receives the MME CONFIGURATION TRANSFER message with
Time Sync Info request, it replies to the MME with eNB CONFIGURATION
TRANSFER message containing its stratum level and sync status. The MME
forwards the received information to the HeNB1.

Figure 6.4.2.1.4.1-1 Stratum Indication by Backhaul Signalling

##### 6.4.2.1.4.2 Stratum Indication by Blind Detection {#stratum-indication-by-blind-detection .H6}

Blind detection, as an alternative mechanism, is also proposed in RAN4,
which can fulfil the convey requirement for stratum info and
synchronization status without signalling when the OAM configures or all
HeNBs embedded pre-configure the same muting places (e.g. MBSFN
subframes) for a given value of stratum and status, while configures
different muting places for other values of stratum and status. Optional
OAM signalling of MBSFN subframes as a function of stratum is available.
If with all HeNBs embedded pre-configurion, then it is no need to send
the OAM signalling. For blind detection, all HeNBs should well know the
mapping relationship of each stratum and its muting place, here one
instance of the muting place can be subframes declared as MBSFN for this
stratum. One mapping example is illustrated on Fig 6.4.2.1.4.2-1, that
HeNB stratum 1 will trace CRS in SF\#2 of RF\#1, HeNB stratum 2 will
trace CRS of stratum 1 in SF\#2 of RF\#2, also mute to avoiding
interference to HeNB of stratum 1 (this muting could be omitted if power
control is appropriately utilized then interference will be mitigated);
similar ruling is taken to the following strata.

HeNB do blind detection for the existence of CRS on muting place for all
possible stratum (normally on booting stage) and contrast the mapping
table to recognize the strata of its surrounding base stations, and
basing some strategy to decide its synchronization source, thus also
decide its own stratum and muting place.

On normal working, HeNB execute network listening on its specific muting
place according stratum, while that is also indicating its stratum and
synchronization info for new booted neighbour who is doing blind
detection.

Periodically, this HeNB may reserve all muting places for one or several
rounds, and detect whether any change occurs which may impact its
stratum, e.g. synchronization source node shutting down or new node
booting up providing lower stratum than current source, and adapt its
own stratum accordingly. Non-GNSS synchronized stratum and GNSS
synchronized stratum can be differentiated if different muting places
are used for the two which can ensure smooth stratum change between both
types.

![](media/image50.emf)

Fig. 6.4.2.1.4.2-1 Explanation for blind detection on stratum info and
synchronization status

![](media/image51.png)

Fig. 6.4.2.1.4.2-2 HeNB procedure for blind detection on stratum info
and synchronization status

##### 6.4.2.1.5 Scheme Comparison

A brief comparison of the proposed schemes is shown in Table
6.4.2.1.5-1.

Table 6.4.2.1.5-1: Comparisons for different network listening schemes

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Network Listening    | Scheme 1             | Scheme 2             |
| schemes              |                      |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| **Principle of the   | > Use MBSFN          | > Use DwPTS for      |
| scheme**             | > subframes for      | > tracking CRS of    |
|                      | > tracking CRS of    | > donor (H)eNB       |
|                      | > donor (H)eNB       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **Performance**      | Meets requirements   | Meets requirements   |
|                      |                      |                      |
| **(e.g.              | Provides flexible    | CRS tracing can be   |
| synchronization      | overhead-tracking    | done every Radio     |
| accuracy, speed,     | periodicity tradeoff | Frame, which ensure  |
| etc)**               |                      | robust               |
|                      |                      | synchronization      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **HeNB Overhead**    | 0.3% for stratum-1   | Maximum 12.86% with  |
|                      | nodes when using the | 2 switch point per   |
| **(e.g. OFDM symbols | lowest periodicity   | RF                   |
| per \[320ms\])**     | of only 1 MBSFN for  |                      |
|                      | tracking per 320ms   | Minimum 1.43% with 1 |
|                      |                      | switch point per RF  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **Number of          | 4                    | 1, up to 2 with some |
| multi-hops           |                      | cases of special SF  |
| supported**          |                      | configuration (e.g.  |
|                      |                      | Normal CP SSF Conf.4 |
|                      |                      | Conf. 2 Conf. 5)     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **Compatibility and  | Fully backward       | Fully backward       |
| impacts on current   | compatible           | compatible           |
| network**            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **Impacts on         | Optional backhaul    | No extra signalling  |
| specifications**     | signalling will be   | is needed when       |
|                      | specified, and       | supporting only      |
|                      | either backhaul      | single hop           |
|                      | signalling or blind  |                      |
|                      | detection scheme     |                      |
|                      | used depending on    |                      |
|                      | operator deployment. |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **Others**           | Could be used by a   | Could be used by a   |
|                      | HeNB capable of      | HeNB capable of TDD  |
|                      | either FDD or TDD    | mode                 |
|                      | mode                 |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

RAN4 endorses both the GP based solution and the MBSFN subframe based
solution.

7 Interference control
======================

7.1 HeNB measurements
---------------------

Several types of measurements that HeNB can perform are listed in the
following subsections. The objectives of the HeNB measurements are

\- to provide sufficient information to the HeNB for the purpose of
interference mitigation

\- to provide sufficient information to the HeNB such that the HeNB
coverage can be maintained.

According to the measurement type, some of these measurements can be
collected through Connected Mode UEs attached to the HeNB or via a DL
Receiver function within the HeNB itself. Such DL receiver function is
also called Network Listen Mode (NLM), Radio Environment Measurement
(REM) or \"HeNB Sniffer\".

These measurements can also be used during the HeNB self-configuration
process.

### 7.1.1 Measurements from all cells

This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HeNB
during self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the
measurements in Table 7.1.1-1, the HeNB can obtain useful information
from its surrounding cells for purposes such as interference management.

Table 7.1.1-1: HeNB measurements from surrounding cells

  Measurement Type              Purpose                                                  Measurement Source(s)
  ----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Received Interference Power   Calculation of UL interference towards HeNB (from MUE)   HeNB UL Receiver

HeNB could use the Received Interference Power measurement to monitor
the uplink interference. For example, a Received Interference Power
measurement value larger than a pre-defined threshold would mean that at
least an MUE which is interfered by a HeNB is close to the HeNB and that
the MUE\'s Tx power would cause significant interference towards the
HeNB. This measurement value may be used in calculating path loss
between the HeNB and the MUE assuming that a single MUE dominates the
interference. It is also preferable for the HeNB to distinguish between
UL interference from the MUE and wanted signals from HUEs to improve the
accuracy of interference measurement.

### 7.1.2 Measurements to identify surrounding cell layers

This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HeNB
during self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the
measurements in Table 7.1.2-1, the HeNB can obtain useful information to
identify the layer of its surrounding cells and indirectly identifies
other HeNBs nearby for purposes such as mobility handling.

Table 7.1.2-1: HeNB measurements from surrounding cells

  Measurement Type                        Purpose                                                                                  Measurement Source(s)
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Cell reselection priority information   Distinction between cell types based on frequency layer priority                         HeNB DL Receiver
  CSG status and ID                       Distinction between cell layers based on CSG, and self-construction of neighbour list,   HeNB DL Receiver

### 7.1.3 Measurements from macro cell layer

This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HeNB
during self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the
measurements in Table 7.1.3-1, the HeNB can obtain useful information
from its surrounding macro cells for purposes such as interference
management.

Table 7.1.3-1: HeNB measurements from surrounding macro cells

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Measurement Type     | Purpose              | Measurement          |
|                      |                      | Source(s)            |
+======================+======================+======================+
| RSRP                 | Calculation of       | HeNB DL Receiver     |
|                      | co-channel DL        |                      |
|                      | interference towards | HUE                  |
|                      | macro UEs (from      |                      |
|                      | HeNB)                | MUE (in case of      |
|                      |                      | hybrid cell)         |
|                      | Calculation of       |                      |
|                      | co-channel UL        |                      |
|                      | interference towards |                      |
|                      | macro layer (from    |                      |
|                      | HUEs)                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Calculation of       |                      |
|                      | co-channel UL        |                      |
|                      | interference towards |                      |
|                      | HeNB (from MUEs)     |                      |
|                      | based on estimated   |                      |
|                      | MUE Tx power         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Determine coverage   |                      |
|                      | of macro cell (for   |                      |
|                      | optimization of      |                      |
|                      | hybrid cell          |                      |
|                      | configuration)       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Co-channel RSRQ      | Determine quality of | HeNB DL Receiver     |
|                      | macro cell (for      |                      |
|                      | optimization of      | HUE                  |
|                      | hybrid cell          |                      |
|                      | configuration)       | MUE (in case of      |
|                      |                      | hybrid cell)         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Reference Signal     | Estimation of path   | HeNB DL Receiver     |
| Transmission Power   | loss from HUE to     |                      |
|                      | MeNB                 |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Physical + Global    | Allow HeNB to        | HeNB DL Receiver     |
| Cell ID              | Instruct UEs to      |                      |
|                      | measure specific     | HUE                  |
|                      | cells.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Allow UE to report   |                      |
|                      | discovered cells to  |                      |
|                      | HeNB.                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

If a HeNB has receiver capability, then it is able to measure the
received CRS Êc, measured in dBm, which is the Reference Signal Received
Power per resource element present at the Home BS antenna connector for
the Reference Signal received on the co-channel. For CRS Êc
determination, the cell-specific reference signal R0 according TS 36.211
shall be used. If the HeNB can reliably detect that multiple TX antennas
are used for transmission on the co-channel, it may use the average in W
of the CRS Êc on all detected antennas. On start-up, the HeNB can
measure the CRS Êc power from the most dominant co-channel deployed
macro cell.

Table 7.1.3-2: HeNB measurements from surrounding macro cells

  Measurement Type                               Purpose                                                                                                                            Measurement Source(s)
  ---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Co-channel received CRS Êc (measured in dBm)   Measurement is used to determine whether HeNB is close to dominant Macro cell, or whether it is close to macro-cell-edge border.   HeNB DL Receiver

### 7.1.4 Measurements of other HeNB cells

This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HeNB
during self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the
measurements in Table 7.1.4-1, the HeNB can obtain useful information
from its adjacent HeNBs for purposes such as interference management.

Table 7.1.4-1: HeNB measurements from adjacent HeNBs

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Measurement Type     | Purpose              | Measurement          |
|                      |                      | Source(s)            |
+======================+======================+======================+
| Co-channel RSRP      | Calculation of       | HeNB DL Receiver     |
|                      | co-channel DL        |                      |
|                      | interference towards | HUE                  |
|                      | neighbour HUEs (from |                      |
|                      | HeNB)                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Calculation of       |                      |
|                      | co-channel UL        |                      |
|                      | interference towards |                      |
|                      | neighbour HeNBs      |                      |
|                      | (from HUEs)          |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Reference Signal     | Estimation of path   | HeNB DL Receiver     |
| Transmission Power   | loss from HUE to     |                      |
|                      | HeNB                 |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Physical + Global    | Allow HeNB to        | HeNB DL Receiver     |
| Cell ID              | Instruct UEs to      |                      |
|                      | measure specific     | HUE                  |
|                      | cells                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Allow UE to report   |                      |
|                      | discovered cells to  |                      |
|                      | HeNB.                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

7.2 HeNB self-configuration
---------------------------

### 7.2.1 Information Exchange between eNBs and HeNBs

The provision of information exchange between eNBs ↔ HeNBs and HeNBs ↔
HeNBs has potential benefits in allowing HeNBs to take account of uplink
and downlink conditions at nearby eNBs and HeNBs when configuring power
and/or resource blocks to use in uplink and downlink.

We consider several relevant metrics to compare these approaches:

\(1\) Latency: It was recognized in several contributions that a
reliable low latency scheme is desirable for interference management. In
RAN4, it was discussed that the adaptation of HeNB parameters could be
relatively slow, such that changes in interference/loading at eNB are
not tracked on a sub-frame by sub-frame, or frame by frame, but rather
more slowly as the traffic load varies on the eNB. Simulation results in
RAN4 showed that with 50ms latency such relatively slow adaptation still
offers significant performance benefits. Similarly simulation results
also showed significant performance benefits at comparable latencies.
Further benefits can be obtained by faster interference coordination,
especially in the case of bursty traffic.

\(2\) Scalability and Complexity: It is desirable to have the network
complexity scale in a manageable manner with increasing number of HeNBs,
UEs etc. Furthermore, different approaches are expected to have
different implementation impacts at different network entities (eNB, MME
etc.).

\(3\) Overhead: The signalling overhead for exchanging interference
management messages (for both the backhaul and Over-the-Air methods
discussed subsequently) should be small.

Possible approaches for performing the information exchange are
illustrated in Figure 7.2.1-1 and their potential benefits and drawbacks
are described in the following. Flexible operations should be allowed to
choose one or combination of information exchange approaches in HeNB
deployment.

![](media/image52.emf)

Figure 7.2.1-1: Illustration of information exchange for Over-the-Air
and Network based approaches

***Option1. Over-the-air information, direct eNB to HeNB***

Potential benefits of this approach include:

• No impact to network load.

• Low latency for information signalled from eNB to HeNBs.

• Predictable timeline (independent of backhaul conditions), can be used
for coordinated scheduling/transmission.

While this approach may offer low latency, there are several drawbacks:

• The eNB may not always be visible from the HeNB, even though there are
victims requiring protection.

• For some advanced approaches for managing interference, it may be
desirable to send different information to different groups of eNBs or
HeNBs. An over the air broadcast would preclude such operation.

• The downlink would need to be interrupted whenever information is read
over the air.

• Requires changes to eNB implementation

***Option2. Over-the-air information, (H)eNB to HeNB via UE***

For the DL, a victim UE forwards interference coordination related
information from its serving (H)eNB to the aggressor HeNB.

For the UL: An aggressor UE forwards interference coordination related
information from the victim (H)eNB to its serving (H)eNB.

Potential benefits of this approach:

• The downlink would not need to be interrupted to receive information
over the air.

• Lower latency compared to backhaul solutions (i.e. Option3 and 4)
(higher latency relative to Option 1).

• Predictable timeline (independent of backhaul conditions), can be used
for coordinated scheduling/transmission.

• Different information can be sent to different HeNBs

Potential drawbacks to this approach:

• Rel8 UEs can\'t be used to relay the messages.

• Requires changes to (H)eNB implementation

• Can increase the number of UEs that need to be handled by the HeNB.

***Option3. X2 based interface between eNB and HeNB, and between
HeNBs***

The potential benefits of this approach:

• Higher accuracy of information received at destination than the
Over-the-Air approach

• Different information can be sent to different groups of eNBs or HeNBs

The potential drawbacks of this approach:

• The eNB may have large numbers of HeNBs within its coverage area which
potentially means the macro would need to deal with many messages
to/from HeNBs. Ways in which this could be mitigated could be considered
by the relevant working groups for further study e.g. X2 could be
between macro eNBs and HeNBs via HeNB gateways only, with the HeNB
gateways performing a distribution/aggregation function towards the
HeNBs. To reduce the complexity further the set of supported X2AP
procedures could be limited, e.g. no handover over X2, and only sending
Load Indication (OI, HII, RNTP) in the direction macro eNB to HeNB.

• Potentially large latency.

***Option4. S1 based interface between eNB and HeNB, and between
HeNBs***

In some cases it is likely that direct physical links would not exist
between (H)eNBs and HeNBs, and as such X2 would be a logical interface
sharing a similar physical path to S1. With this in mind it could be
argued that the information exchange could be made over S1 instead of
X2. If compared to the X2 based approach there are some potential
benefits to this approach:

• Higher accuracy of information received at destination than the
Over-the-Air approach

• Different information can be sent to different groups of eNBs or HeNBs

• S1 signalling interface already exist in the current specifications

Potential drawbacks of this approach:

• Increased functionality and processing load at the MME.

• Increased latency

• Lack of alignment between eNB↔eNB, eNB↔HeNB and HeNB↔HeNB
SON/interference management.

• Potential lack of alignment with likely future evolutions of
interference management in Release 10 and beyond (assuming that these
are less likely to be based on S1)

7.3 Uplink interference control
-------------------------------

### 7.3.1 Control Channel Protection

#### 7.3.1.1 HeNB Uplink Control Channel Protection

In the uplink, physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) interference from

• HUE (aggressor) to macro-eNB (victim),

• MUE (aggressor) to HeNB (victim), and

• HUE (aggressor) to HeNB (victim)

can be mitigated by enabling orthogonal transmissions. Uplink control
signalling (PUCCH, CQI) reliability can be maintained for both HeNBs and
macro-eNBs by making use of PUCCH offsets for enabling orthogonal PUCCH
assignments between the HeNB and macro-eNB users. For PUCCH
transmissions, over-provisioning can be made use of to ensure
orthogonality of control channels between a HeNB UE and a macro-eNB UE
as shown in Figure 7.3.1.1-1. It is possible to employ this method for
Release-8 UEs without changing the physical layer design or RAN2
signalling.

![](media/image53.emf)

Figure 7.3.1.1-1 UL control interference mitigation by PUCCH
orthogonalization

#### 7.3.1.2 Signalling offset over the backhaul

It would be desirable for the macro-eNB to signal an offset to all HeNBs
within its coverage area in order that transmissions from UEs connected
to HeNBs do not cause interference at the macro-eNB receiver (e.g., a
HeNB deployed in close range of a macro-eNB). Conversely, a macro-eNB UE
that is at the cell edge and therefore transmitting close to its maximum
transmit power can interfere severely with a HeNB UE and the signalling
offset can be made use of to mitigate interference. Alternately, a HeNB
gateway can signal over S1, the offsets that each HeNB should use, thus
providing the capability of configuring orthogonal PUCCH transmissions
in neighboring HeNBs thereby avoiding HeNB (aggressor) to HeNB (victim)
interference on the uplink.

One option for the HeNBs is to not allocate PUCCH resources on edge RBs
as shown in Fig. 7.3.1.1-1 using over-provisioning. A typical macro-eNB
deployment is likely to have PUCCH transmission on the band-edges to
maximize the number of contiguous RBs that can be allocated to PUSCH.
However, unlike macro-eNBs, utilizing the full uplink bandwidth may not
be critical for HeNBs as they serve only a few users at a time.
Therefore, the PUCCH resources in HeNBs can be \"pulled\" inward. The
edge RBs not used by the HeNBs can be used by the macro-eNB for PUCCH
for its UEs. Also, the macro-eNB, being aware of the RBs used by HeNBs
in its coverage area, can schedule some users (e.g. UEs close to the
macro and not near any HeNB) on RBs that overlap with HeNB UE PUCCH
region. This results in reduced interference from macro-eNB UEs to HeNB
UE PUCCH.

### 7.3.2 Smart Power Control based on Path Loss to Worst Victim Macro eNodeB

Interference from the Home UE (HUE) to the Macro eNodeB (MeNB) is
particularly significant if the HUE is located close to the MeNB. On the
other hand, an indoor HUE near its serving HeNB and far from the MeNB
may be harmless. As discussed in RAN4, the HUE transmission power should
be controlled based on path loss (PL) from the HUE to its worst victim
MeNB (i.e. nearest neighbour MeNB).

The PL from HUE to MeNB can be estimated from HUE measurements of
Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP) and MeNB Reference Signal (RS)
Transmission (Tx) power. HeNB might know MeNB RS Tx power by means of
decoding the variable \"referenceSignalPower\" in System Information
Block Type2 (SIB2) message broadcasted from MeNB.

During this work item, such smart power control methods are proposed and
their performance gain is investigated. The methods are as follows.

#### 7.3.2.1 Power Cap Method

In this method, the maximum transmission power density (i.e. power cap)
of HUE is restricted based on the interference rise at MeNB. The power
cap is calculated as the function of PL from the HUE to its worst victim
MeNB. The HUE is power-controlled based on PL to its serving HeNB, up to
the level of the power cap.

Simulation results have been generated for an urban deployment model
with varying HeNB density and for either full buffer or bursty traffic
based on FDD. Similar performance trends also apply to TDD. The results
are assume a fixed power cap of either 0.2 dB (labelled \"tight\") or 7
dB (labelled \"loose\", and it should be noted that this is a very loose
cap, for which in practice the home UE power will likely be set
considering coverage requirements of the HeNB alone rather than also
considering interference to the macro layer).

##### 7.3.2.1.1 Simulation Assumptions

The simulation parameters largely follow the assumption in section
6.2.1.1.1 with the following specific parameters.

Table 7.3.2.1.1-1: Simulation Parameters

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Parameter                        | Assumption                       |
+==================================+==================================+
| Deployment                       | Urban signalling                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Macro layer has 7 sites (21      |
|                                  | sectors) with wrap-around, 500m  |
|                                  | ISD.                             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0% (urban) of home UEs are       |
|                                  | outdoors and 20% of macro UEs    |
|                                  | are outdoors.                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Number of macro UEs per sector   | 20                               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Exterior wall loss               | 20dB                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Shadowing correlation (one BS to | Correlated shadowing             |
| multiple UEs)                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Macrocell power uplink control   | Max power based on limiting      |
|                                  | noise rise to macro neighbours   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Femtocell uplink power control   | Max power based on limiting      |
|                                  | noise rise to macro neighbours   |
|                                  | (a similar approach to that      |
|                                  | described in \[7\] section 7.3.1 |
|                                  | for WCDMA).                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Link to system mapping           | Per sub-carrier capacity         |
|                                  | approach                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Scheduler                        | Frequency selective/Proportional |
|                                  | fair                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Traffic model                    | Full buffer or Bursty            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | In the case of bursty traffic    |
|                                  | being modelled, 70% of UEs use   |
|                                  | the bursty traffic model, the    |
|                                  | remaining UEs are full-buffer.   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Apartment block model            | Dual stripe, 6 floors (=240      |
|                                  | apartments), one \"dual stripe\" |
|                                  | randomly dropped per macro       |
|                                  | sector. A variable probability   |
|                                  | of having active femto in each   |
|                                  | apartment.                       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Pathloss model                   | Full (rather than simplified)    |
|                                  | model                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

##### 7.3.2.1.2 Simulation Results

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-1 below shows the average macrocell sector throughput
as a function of the probability that there is an active HeNB in an
apartment. Results are shown for two values of the target maximum
\"noise rise\" that the home UE should generate at the macro eNB
(\"tight\" and \"loose\"). It can be seen that with a low density of
active HeNBs the \"loose\" approach provides adequate protection whereas
at higher densities the \"tight\" cap is appropriate. This goes for both
the full buffer and the bursty traffic models.

![](media/image54.emf)

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-1: Macrocell uplink average sector throughput

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-2 below shows the cell edge (5 percentile) macro user
throughput as a function of the probability that there is an active HeNB
in an apartment. Again it can be seen that with a low density of active
HeNBs the \"loose\" approach provides adequate protection whereas at
higher densities the \"tight\" cap is appropriate. This goes for both
the full buffer and the bursty traffic models.

![](media/image55.emf)

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-2: Macrocell uplink 5 percentile user throughput

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-3 below shows the mean Interference over Thermal (IoT)
at the macro eNB. It can be seen that the IoT is controlled more with
the \"tight\" cap particularly at high HeNB densities.

![](media/image56.emf)

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-3: Macrocell Interference over Thermal

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-4 below shows the average HeNB sector throughput as a
function of the probability that there is an active HeNB in an
apartment. It can be seen that the \"loose\" cap results in a higher
throughput. This goes for both the full buffer and the bursty traffic
models.

![](media/image57.emf)

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-4: Femtocell uplink average sector throughput

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-5 below shows the cell edge (5 percentile) home user
throughput as a function of the probability that there is an active HeNB
in an apartment. Again it can be seen that the \"loose\" cap results in
a higher throughput.

![](media/image58.emf)

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-5: Femtocell uplink 5 percentile user throughput

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-6 shows the mean Interference over Thermal (IoT) at the
HeNB.

![](media/image59.emf)

Figure 7.3.2.1.2-6: Femtocell Interference over Thermal

##### 7.3.2.1.3 Discussion of Results

For low densities of HeNB a \"loose\" power cap is sufficient which
allows higher HeNB throughputs than the \"tight\" power cap which is
required for higher HeNB densities.

#### 7.3.2.2 Power Control based on PL from HUE to its serving HeNB and PL from HUE to its worst victim MeNB

The UE specific term of the transmission power density should be defined
as the function of PL from HUE to its serving HeNB () and PL from HUE to
its worst victim MeNB () because the uplink transmission power is
explicitly defined as the form using PL from UE to its serving eNodeB in
the current specification \[13\]. For example, the power control where
the UE specific term of is set to (in dB) corresponds to the power cap
method (The term is cancelled by path loss compensation term and the
parameter is path loss compensation coefficient \[13\]). In general, the
UE specific term of might be non-decreasing function of and the
dependency of is implementation issue.

One realization of such power control is proposed during this work item;
PL difference based power control. In this method, the UE specific term
of is defined as the non-decreasing function of PL difference (in dB).
The explicit form of the UE specific term of is also given in RAN4.

##### 7.3.2.2.1 Simulation Assumptions

The simulation parameters largely follow the suburban model with the
following specific parameters. The following simulation is performed
based on FDD. Similar performance trends also apply to TDD.

Table 7.3.2.2.1-1: Simulation Parameters

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Parameter                        | Assumption                       |
+==================================+==================================+
| Deployment                       | Suburban model                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Macro layer has 7 sites (21      |
|                                  | sectors) with wrap-around, 500m  |
|                                  | ISD.                             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 10% of home UEs are outdoors and |
|                                  | all macro UEs are indoors.       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Number of macro UEs per sector   | 10                               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Exterior wall Loss               | 20dB                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Shadowing correlation (one BS to | Correlated shadowing             |
| multiple UEs)                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Macrocell power uplink control   | Closed loop ICIC based on        |
|                                  | overload indicator, targeting    |
|                                  | the IoT value to 10 dB           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Femtocell uplink power control   | PL difference based TPC and      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | FPC (for comparison)             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Link to system mapping           | **EESM, same value for all MCS** |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Scheduler                        | Frequency selective /            |
|                                  | Proportional fair                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Traffic model                    | Full buffer                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Pathloss model                   | Full model                       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

##### 7.3.2.2.2 Simulation Results

Figure 7.3.2.2.2-1 and Figure 7.3.2.2.2-2 show the MUE and HUE
throughputs for various HeNB densities, which is the number of HeNB per
macro sector. The power control based on PL difference (PL-diff.) and
conventional fractional power control (FPC) are compared.

Figure 7.3.2.2.2-1 indicates that the PL difference based power control
mitigates the degradation of MUE throughput than FPC. Figure 7.3.2.2.2-2
(right) shows the PL difference based power control can keep the HUE
average throughput at the same level of FPC. Its cost is the degradation
of HUE 5 percentile throughput as shown in Fig. 7.3.2.2.2-2 (left). In
the suburban model with 10 % outdoor HUE, the HUE that is correspond to
HUE 5 percentile throughput is mainly located outdoors.

![](media/image74.emf) ![](media/image75.emf)

Figure 7.3.2.2.2-1: MUE throughput (Left: Average, Right: 5 percentile)

![](media/image76.emf)![](media/image77.emf)

Figure 7.3.2.2.2-2: HUE throughput (Left: Average, Right: 5 percentile)

##### 7.3.2.2.3 Discussion of Results

The power control based on PL difference can mitigate the degradation of
MUE throughput. Its cost is the degradation of HUE 5 percentile
throughput which is mainly correspond to outdoor HUE.

#### 7.3.2.3 For Future Releases

The above smart power controls require no interference coordination
between eNodeBs. As the result, it might be difficult to manage the
interference from HUE as HeNB density increases. For future releases
(LTE Release 10 or LTE-Advanced), the adaptive power control by means of
X2 or S1 signalling between MeNB and HeNB or between HeNBs should be
investigated (e.g. to take account of the density of active femtocells
within a macrocell coverage area). Notice that during this work item,
the adaptive power controls are proposed and their performance gain is
investigated.

7.4 Downlink interference control
---------------------------------

### 7.4.1 Control Channel Protection

Several techniques have been considered for data interference
management. However control channel interference management is equally
important since improved data SINR is not useful if the UEs cannot
receive control channels. Thus, it is vital to have techniques that
address control channel interference.

Downlink control channel (PDCCH) interference can occur in two
directions in co-channel HeNB deployments.

• HeNB (aggressor) to macro-UE (victim), and

• macro-eNB (aggressor) to HUE (victim) if the UE is connected to a
weaker HeNB cell (e.g. to access local information at the HeNB).

This can lead to problems both in connected mode and in idle mode such
as:

1\. UE being unable to reliably decode paging channel resulting in
missed pages and therefore a user\'s inability to receive UE-terminated
calls,

2\. UE being unable to read common control channels, and

3\. throughput degradation or degraded PDSCH performance.

The following are some of the techniques that could be used for control
channel protection. It should be noted that some of these aspects may
require UE implementation changes and should be considered for Rel 10
and beyond. It is possible that these methods offer gains for Rel 8/9
UEs; however, this needs to be studied further.

#### 7.4.1.1 Control of HeNB downlink interference towards macro eNB control channels by frequency partitioning with per-subband interference estimation

Frequency partitioning, or carrier offsetting, where HeNBs are confined
to use only a part of the bandwidth can be used to mitigate interference
problems. This scenario is shown in Fig. 7.4.1.1-1. By using scheduling
techniques that would avoid data transmissions on those parts of the
bandwidth, the levels of interference as seen at the receiver can be
reduced. This could resolve the interference problem for the data
transmissions, however, control channels such as PDCCH that span the
entire bandwidth would still be affected.

![](media/image78.png)

Fig. 7.4.1.1-1 Partial Bandwidth Coexistence

The effects of the high interference seen in one of the subbands can be
mitigated if the interference estimation is done on a per-subband basis.
This would confine the influence of the interference only to that
subband and not allow it to affect the entire bandwidth. This in turn
would mean that only some of the coded bits are affected. When wideband
interference estimation is used, all the bits are affected and the
probability of successfully decoding the message decreases. Assuming
sufficient number of CCEs are used (i.e., enough code protection), the
PDCCH BLER performance would be slightly degraded. But the transmission
would likely be reliable enough not to significantly affect normal
operation.

To illustrate the performance of this scheme, some simulation results
are given. A simulation was performed to evaluate the impact on control
channel performance of high interference on one of the subbands. Results
for the cases of per-subband interference estimation and wideband
interference estimation are presented.

The simulation considers a HeNB that uses one fourth of the bandwidth of
the macro as shown in Fig. 7.4.1.1-1. A UE connected to a macro-eNB and
receiving PDCCH transmission from it, sees high interference on one of
the subbands. The level of interference is varied as a parameter
relative to the noise level. The PDCCH error rate is compared for the
cases when wideband interference estimation and per-subband interference
estimation are used. The simulation parameters are given in Table
7.4.1.1-1. Only the results for 4 CCE PDCCH are given here but similar
results were observed for other PDCCH sizes.

Table 7.4.1.1-1: Simulation parameters used

  Parameter                  Assumption
  -------------------------- ----------------------------------
  Information payload size   40 bits
  Coding                     1/3 rate TBCC with rate matching
  Macro Bandwidth            5 MHz
  HeNB bandwidth             1/4 of macro Bandwidth
  Channel model              TU, 3km/h
  Channel estimation         2-D MMSE channel estimation
  Interference estimation    Ideal

![](media/image79.png)

Fig. 7.4.1.1-2 CCE PDCCH BLER with wideband interference estimation

![](media/image80.png)

Fig.7.4.1.1-3 4CCE PDCCH BLER with subband interference estimation

#### 7.4.1.2 Control of HeNB downlink interference among neighboring HeNBs control channels by frequency partitioning

Unlike data (PDSCH, PUSCH), there is no HARQ for control channel
transmissions which must typically target fairly low BLER of 1% or less.
HeNBs that are in close proximity of each other will not have reliable
downlink control channels (e.g. PDCCH, PHICH, PCFICH, PBCH, P/S-SCH).
One way to solve this is to segment the LTE carrier and allow the
interfering HeNBs to transmit their control signalling in separate
frequency domain resources. For example, if the LTE carrier is 20MHz
then it would be segmented into two 10MHz carriers on the downlink with
each of the two interfering HeNBs transmitting its control signalling
(PDCCH, PHICH, PCFICH, P-SCH, S-SCH, PBCH) on one of the 10 MHz
carriers.

Both Release-8 UEs and Release-9 UEs would access the HeNB as a 10 MHz
carrier and receive control and broadcast signalling from HeNB within 10
MHz. However, Release-10 UEs can additionally be assigned PDSCH resource
on the remaining 10 MHz frequency resources using carrier aggregation.
Therefore, while Release-8/9 UEs are limited to allocations of 50 RBs,
Release-10 UEs could be assigned any portion of the 100 RBs.

### 7.4.2 Data Channel Protection

#### 7.4.2.1 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference towards macro eNB data channels by frequency partition

Frequency partition between Macro eNB and HeNB can be utilized to
mitigate the interference from HeNB to Macro eNB. HeNB can get frequency
partition information of its neighbour Macro eNB through air link
measurement if additional receiver is enabled on HeNB. Alternatively, a
semi-static scheme can be adopted if a pre-configuration of the
frequency partition can be determined by Macro eNB management server.
For example, Macro eNB will schedule resource blocks to Macro UE based
on its location. When HeNB gets its own location information, it will
know which resource blocks will be assigned to a nearby macro UE.

With the knowledge of the frequency partition information, for example,
HeNB knows which set of resource blocks will be used for Macro eNB cell
center users (CCU), and which set of resource blocks will be used for
Macrocell cell edge users (CEU), HeNB can coordinate its transmission to
avoid its interference to nearby Macro UE by giving high scheduling
priority to resource blocks not used by the nearby Macro UE. For
example, if HeNB is located at the edge of the Macro eNB, HeNB will give
higher priority to resource blocks used by macro center UEs for downlink
transmission. If HeNB is located at the center of the Macro eNB, HeNB
will give higher priority to resource blocks used by macro edge UEs for
downlink transmission as shown in Figure 7.4.2.1-1.

![](media/image81.emf)

Figure 7.4.2.1-1 Examples of HeNB and macro UE location

#### 7.4.2.2 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference among neighboring HeNBs

HeNBs listen to neighboring HeNBs\' control channel and reference signal
transmissions, determines the cell ID of each neighboring HeNB and
measure the path loss from each of them. In addition, the HeNBs could
also use reports from UEs.

Based on this information, HeNBs could use fractional frequency reuse
(FFR) to orthogonalize the resources used and increase the overall
performance of the network.

##### 7.4.2.2.1 Centralized coordination

The centralized coordinator can form an adjacency graph of all HeNBs
based on the reports from each HeNB.

Each HeNB estimates the fraction of time it needs to transmit according
to the traffic load and channel conditions of its UEs, and reports this
ratio to the centralized controller via S1 signalling.

• For mixed traffic with both delay sensitive traffic and delay tolerant
traffic, two ratios which correspond to both traffic types will be
reported.

• Each HeNB needs to update its report when at least one of the
following event happens:

▪ New traffic session initiation

▪ UE channel condition variation over a pre-defined threshold

Given the adjacency graph and the reported ratios from each HeNB, the
centralized coordinator determines

Option 1: the subframes that each HeNB is allowed to transmit, and
notifies each HeNB of its transmission pattern via S1 signalling. A HeNB
needs to properly configure DRX parameters of its UEs according to the
transmission pattern notified by the centralized coordinator.

Option 2: the subbands or carrier frequency that each HeNB is allowed to
transmit, and notifies each HeNB of its transmission pattern via S1
signalling.

Note that the S1 signalling load between HeNBs and the centralized
coordinator could be large if the number of HeNB connections per
coordinator is significant. To reduce S1 signalling, it is preferable to
limit the number of HeNB reports to the centralized coordinator. For
example, the centralized coordinator can assign a HeNB a lot more
resources than it actually needs, and the HeNB will not send a report to
the centralized controller unless it uses up all the assigned resources.
As HeNBs are generally lightly loaded, a HeNB may rarely send a report
if it is assigned a large fraction of resources (i.e. subframes,
subbands or carrier frequency).

##### 7.4.2.2.2 Distributed Dynamic Frequency Partitioning

Based on the information collected, the HeNBs can construct a \"Jamming
Graph\" where each node denotes an active HeNB and an edge denotes
jamming condition between two HeNBs. A jamming condition is declared
when the channel gain difference between the interfering and serving
links exceeds a certain threshold. The distributed fractional frequency
reuse planning problem is now converted into a graph coloring problem,
which could be solved in a distributed manner at low complexity.

Examples of such algorithms and brief performance analysis are given in
several RAN4 contributions for both the FDD and TDD case.

This algorithm could be an adaptive algorithm in which resources are
negotiated and adaptively allocated for different nodes, based on a
utility function that enables nodes to quantify the benefit or loss due
to each resource coordination action. These utility values can then be
used at each node to select the right resource coordination requests to
be sent to their neighbors, or to select the best requested coordination
action from among multiple received requests, and hence to grant/reject
the requests based on their quantified benefit to the network.

To support this adaptive algorithm, network nodes need to exchange
information such as subbands reuse updates and utility information. The
performance depends significantly on the latency of the messaging,
especially in the case of non-full buffer traffic. This information
should be taken into account while analyzing the different options for
such information exchange (e.g. X2, S1, over-the-air, over-the-air via
UE).

#### 7.4.2.3 Adaptive Frequency Selection

To minimize the mutual interference between HeNB and surrounding cells,
RSRP measurements and cell re-selection priority information in SIBs or
RRC message from neighbour cells could be utilized for HeNB to
adaptively select its operating carrier frequency.

The original purpose of cell-reselection priority information is for UE
to properly select its camping cell based on the frequency layer
priority of each carrier. For interference avoidance, this information
can be utilized by HeNB to appropriately select its operating frequency
by decoding SIBs or RRC message from its neighbour cells during normal
operation or in self-configuration mode. At the same time, HeNB should
also measure co-channel or adjacent channel RSRP of the neighbour cells
to make a proper selection. Furthermore, if the priority information of
the neighbour cells is changed at a certain time after the HeNB has
already started up, the HeNB should periodically update the priority
information, measure the RSRP and adjust its operating frequency (if
necessary).

Figure 7.4.2.3-1 below depicts a scenario where the HeNB is overlaid by
both higher and lower priority frequency layers as shown for HeNB cell
1, and another scenario where the HeNB is overlaid by only one frequency
layer as shown for HeNB cell 2.

For HeNB cell 1, when the measured RSRP of both higher and lower
priority frequency layers exceed a predefined set of thresholds which
implies that it is overlaid by more than one frequency layers, the HeNB
should select its operating frequency that is being used by the cell
that has the lower priority for interference mitigation. As illustrated
in Figure 7.4.2.3-1, the HeNB cell 1 should select RF1 which is the
lower priority carrier frequency. On the other hand, if the HeNB is
overlaid by only one priority carrier frequency as shown for HeNB cell 2
in Figure 7.4.2.3-1, the HeNB should select a carrier frequency that
corresponds to the smaller measured RSRP. For example, the HeNB cell 2
in Fig.7.4.2.3-1 should select RF2 which has smaller RSRP.

![](media/image89.emf)

Figure 7.4.2.3-1 Examples of adaptive frequency selection scheme

The adaptive frequency selection scheme is applied most effectively to
HeNBs in non-allowed CSG mode for avoiding the interference. In the case
when the HeNB is operating in an open or hybrid access mode, it may also
apply the scheme for interference avoidance.

#### 7.4.2.4 Downlink interference management based on mapping between PCIs and transmission patterns

Interference Management based on mapping between PCIs and transmission
patterns requires a centralized coordinator. The centralized coordinator
generates a number of transmission patterns and a function which maps
transmission patterns to PCIs, and then sends to all cells the
information of transmission patterns and the mapping function. The
essentials of this scheme are as follows:

\- When powered on, a HeNB will listen to neighboring cell
transmissions, determine the Cell ID of these neighboring HeNBs, and
report them to the centralized coordinator.

\- The centralized coordinator can form an adjacency graph of all HeNBs
based on the reports from each HeNB as well as its UEs.

\- Given the adjacency graph, the centralized coordinator determines the
followings semi-statically:

▪ a set of transmission patterns; A pattern shows a profile of maximum
Tx power for each PRB or group of PRBs

▪ a function which maps transmission patterns to PCIs

\- The centralized coordinator notifies to HeNBs and MeNBs of the
followings via S1 signalling.

▪ the set of transmission patterns

▪ the function which maps transmission patterns to PCIs

\- This notification makes it possible that all cells share the
information of the transmission patterns and the mapping between the
patterns and PCIs.

\- HeNB should use PRBs according to the transmission pattern
corresponding to its PCI.

Downlink interference management can be done as follows:

If a UE connected to a serving (H)eNB is close to a neighbouring HeNB,
the downlink of the UE can be severely degraded due to high interference
from the neighbouring HeNB. The serving (H)eNB can be macro eNB or HeNB.
The UE detects the PCI and measures the RSRP of the neighbouring HeNB,
and reports these to the serving (H)eNB. Because of the sharing of the
information of the transmission patterns and the mapping between these
patterns and PCI, the serving (H)eNB knows the transmission pattern of
the neighbouring HeNB that the UE is close to. This makes it possible
for the serving (H)eNB to allocate downlink resource such that the UE is
not severely interfered by the neighbouring HeNB on its downlink.

#### 7.4.2.5 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference by dynamically changing HeNB CSG ID

To mitigate HeNB interference as well as to prevent free HeNB usage by
neighbors, one option is to change the CSG ID of a closed access HeNB
dynamically between

• Its default CSG ID which is assigned when it is deployed and

• A dedicated CSG ID which is configured by the operator.

This dedicated CSG ID is included in the Operator CSG list for every UE
in the operator network. When the closed access HeNB changes its CSG ID
to the dedicated CSG ID, it actually becomes accessible to each
passing-by UE, thus alleviating its interference towards the macro cell.
Note that this scheme would only be beneficial when a large fraction of
UEs support CSG.

By dynamically changing the CSG IDs of closed access HeNBs in a
coordinated manner, it might be possible to ensure that the number of
closed access HeNBs using default CSG IDs under each macro cell does not
go beyond a pre-defined upper bound at any time instant.

• A centralized controller (e.g. HeNB Gateway or HeNB management server)
can set the upper bound, and configures, for each HeNB, the time
intervals it supports the default CSG ID and the dedicated CSG ID,
respectively. Then each HeNB dynamically varies its CSG ID based on the
configuration parameters provided by the centralized controller.

▪ Different macro cells may have different or common upper bounds.

▪ Whenever a HeNB is deployed, the centralized controller can determine
its adjacent macro cell based on its location and configure the time
intervals it will employ the default CSG ID and the dedicated CSG ID,
respectively.

▪ \`The mechanisms of when and how to select a set of HeNBs is FFS. It
may be possible to carefully arrange time intervals to employ default
CSG IDs for different HeNBs to ensure that the number of closed access
HeNBs using default CSG IDs under every macro cell can be upper limited
at any time instant.

\- E.g. some HeNBs may use default CSG IDs the first 30 minutes of every
hour, but others may not; alternatively, some HeNBs may use default CSG
IDs 9AM-11PM everyday, but others may do.

▪ The upper bound can be determined by

\- Simulation/numerical analysis

\- HeNB subscription profile

\> E.g. make HeNBs \"less open\" if the subscription rate is high and
the subscribers desire to do so.

\- Macro cell load

\> E.g. make HeNBs \"more open\" when macro cell is heavy loaded, and
\"less open\" when macro cell is lightly loaded.

Further study of this proposals and comparison to alternatives (e.g.
hybrid cells) may be needed. In particular, the UE and core network
impact of dynamically changing the CSG ID is for further study by the
relevant working groups.

### 7.4.3 Power Control

#### 7.4.3.1 HeNB power control based on HeNB-MUE path loss

HeNB should adjust the downlink transmit power by taking into account
the path loss between the HeNB and an outdoor neighbour MUE including
penetration loss in order to provide better interference mitigation for
the MUE while maintaining good HeNB coverage for HUEs.

HeNB should set the transmit power of reference signal P\_tx as follows:

P\_tx (dBm) = MEDIAN( P\_m + P\_offset, P\_tx\_upp, P\_tx\_low )

Where:

\- P\_m (dBm) is RSRP from the nearest MeNB measured by the HeNB. P\_m
is dependent on path loss which includes the penetration loss between
the nearest MeNB and the HeNB.

\- P\_offset (dB) is the power offset described below in detail.

\- P\_tx\_upp/P\_tx\_low (dBm) is the upper/lower limit value for the
transmit power of the reference signal. The maximum and the minimum
total transmit power of HeNB should follow HNB in \[7\].

The HeNB can also set the maximum downlink transmit power in proportion
to the transmit power of the reference signal. As the RSRP decreases,
which means the HeNB is located close to the edge of the macro cell, the
transmit power should be small in order to mitigate the downlink
interference to the MUE.

P\_offset above should be defined based on path loss between the HeNB
and the MUE. The path loss may consist of indoor path loss between the
HeNB and cell edge of HeNB cell and the penetration loss. Therefore,
P\_offset should be formulated as follows:

P\_offset = MEDIAN( P\_offset\_o + K\*LE, P\_offset\_max, P\_offset\_min
)

Where:

\- P\_offset\_o (dB) is a predetermined power offset value corresponding
to the indoor path loss. Typical value range between 50 and 100dB, and
can be determined by the averaged measurement value.

\- K is an adjustable positive factor can be determined by the priority
of HeNB operation. This value should be high to increase the total
transmit power (MeNB is more acceptable to higher interference) and low
to reduce the interference to MeNB operation.

\- LE (dB) is estimated penetration loss as below.

\- P\_offset\_max/P\_offset\_min (dB) is the maximum/minimum value of
the P\_offset by which the estimated and calculated P\_offset can be
prevented from being too large or too small. This value is dependent of
the actual wall penetration loss plus P\_offset\_o. And the typical wall
penetration loss ranges between 10 and 30dB.

If the path loss between the HeNB and the MUE can be estimated, then the
transmit power of the HeNB should be set accordingly.

The path loss between the HeNB and the MUE should be estimated based on
the difference between the estimated UL transmit power and the UL
reception power (as the Received Interference Power) of the MUE. The
estimated UL transmit power is based on the assumption that UL power
control is applied for both MUE and HeNB as a UE. Then the UL transmit
power can be calculated by the DL propagation loss from the surrounding
MeNB to the HeNB utilizing the RSRP measurement.

#### 7.4.3.2 Smart power control based on interference measurement from macro BS

In the absence of alternative techniques such as resource partitioning,
a fixed maximum power setting configured by the network is not
sufficient to ensure minimum HeNB coverage range while protecting macro
in all cases. Hence, a sensing of the HeNB environment can be used for
setting the transmit power.

The HeNB adjust its maximum DL transmit power as a function of air
interface measurements to avoid interfering with macro cell UEs.
Examples of such measurements are total received interference, received
CRS Êc from the most dominant macro cell eNB, etc. The scheme is open
loop, and does not involve the UEs and signalling between network nodes.

The HeNB shall adjust its maximum transmit power according to the
following formula,

\(1\)

where parameters P~max~ and P~min~ is the maximum and minimum HeNB
transmit power settings, CRS Êc is measured in dBm, which is the
Reference Signal Received Power per resource element present at the Home
BS antenna connector received from the strongest co-channel macro cell.
is the number of downlink resource blocks in the HeNB channel. is the
number of subcarriers in a resource block (). Parameter α is a linear
scalar that allows altering the slope of power control mapping curve, β
is a parameter expressed in dB that can be used for altering the exact
range of CRS Êc covered by dynamic range of power control.

Parameters P~min\ ,~ α, and β are considered to be HeNB configuration
parameters, and P~max~ corresponds to the HeNBs maximum transmit power
capability.

For the special case where the HeNB is unable to detect any co-channel
deployed macro cells. The HeNB is free to use its maximum transmit
power, or apply pre-set parameterized value based on the requirement of
operator.

7.5 Hybrid Cells
----------------

Hybrid cells are being included in the 3GPP release 9 specifications.
Hybrid HeNBs may provide different service levels to UEs that are
members of the HeNB and non-member UEs. In RAN4, extensive deployment
scenarios of hybrid cells have been discussed. The interference
scenarios apply to most of the deployments under consideration.

For the scenario where HeNBs are on a shared carrier with eNBs, the
interference management considerations are different between closed and
hybrid access modes. For the closed access mode the used HeNB resources
(e.g. power, RBs) are selected as a trade-off between performance at the
HeNB/HUEs and interference caused to the macro eNB/MUEs. For the hybrid
access mode the trade-off is between overall system performance
(including both macro eNB and HeNB layers), and resources consumed at
the HeNB by \"visiting\" (i.e. non-CSG member) UEs. These aspects are
considered in more detail in the following sub-sections.

### 7.5.1 Hybrid Access Level of Service

Hybrid HeNB may provide different service levels to UEs that are members
of the HeNB and non-member UEs. The lowest level of services is paging
service, where a hybrid cell allows a non-member UE to access the cell
to receive pages. A paging only hybrid cell is an interesting
alternative to pure CSG cells. Since CSG cells have separate PCID space,
switching between CSG and hybrid mode would have impact on both idle
state and connected state home UEs. On the contrary, a hybrid cell could
with paging-only service provides similar functionality as a CSG cell
without incurring CSG-hybrid switching penalty.

If a hybrid cell only provides paging services to non-member UEs, data
channel interference is similar to CSG HeNBs. The difference is that the
hybrid cell has more information about the victim UE than a CSG cell.
When the hybrid cell decides to handover (HO) the UE to a macro cell,
interference coordination could be negotiated with the macro as part of
the HO procedure. Some examples, are:

1\. DL interference: The hybrid cell could reduce transmit power such
that the UE handed over to the target cell has sufficient DL C/I to
receive DL control channels from the target cell. The hybrid cell could
also engage in fractional frequency reuse (FFR) with the target cell to
enhance DL data rate of the victim UE.

2\. UL interference: A hybrid cell and HO target cell could choose the
power setting of this UE such that UL interference could be coordinated.
UL control channels of the HO sUE could also be orthogonalized with the
PUCCH of the source hybrid cell. UL data channel coordination through UL
FFR could be configured on a semi-static basis.

Note that hybrid cells also have additional information on the channel
quality of active UEs. Hence the adjustment made at the hybrid cell
could fully take into account on the impact to ongoing traffic. In some
extreme scenarios, hybrid cell could handover both the member UEs and
non-member UEs to the macro cell.

If a hybrid cell provides data services to non-member UEs, the hybrid
HeNB is similar to a pico cell with lower Tx power and different service
level for members and non-members. In addition, a hybrid HeNB is
different from a operator deployed pico cell in the following areas

1\. A release 9 hybrid HeNB does not support X2 interface.

2\. A hybrid HeNB could be customer deployed without proper RF planning

3\. The density of hybrid HeNB could have much high density than
operator deployed pico cells.

Given the challenges mentioned above, non-Rel-8 interference
coordination schemes should be investigated for hybrid cells.

### 7.5.2 DL Performance Evaluation

Full buffer performance analysis is performed for CSG and hybrid HeNB
deployments based on FDD. The dense-urban model corresponds to
densely-populated areas where there are multi-floor apartment buildings
with smaller size apartment units. Similar performance trends can be
observed for TDD.

The set of simulation parameters are shown below:

• System bandwidth 5 MHz

• Macro Power = 43dBm

• HeNB power between \[-10 dBm, 10 dBm\].

• Case 1, the HeNB power is fixed to 8 dBm

• Case 2, the adaptive HeNB power setting is used to reduce the MUE
outage

• ISD of 1km

• Noise power = -99dBm

• 57 cell wrap around model with 3 center cells simulated for traffic

• 10 macro UEs per cell

• HeNB penetration rate of 5%, and activity factor of 13%, this leads to
12 active home UEs per cell

The association algorithm in all cases is based on the best RSRQ among
allowed cells. In the case of CSG cells, UEs are only allowed to
associate with the macro cell or the HeNB in the same CSG group. In the
case of hybrid cells, all cells are open.

The C/I and throughput distribution for CSG and hybrid cells are shown
in Figures 7.5.2-1 to 7.5.2-4. As discussed in RAN4, adaptive power
control could reduce outage for CSG cells. In the case of hybrid cells,
there is no outage even without adaptive power control due to open
association. Note that if different service levels are enforced for
group member and non-group members, the fairness could be different from
those shown in the figures.

Key mobile statistics (outage, 20% throughput and median throughput) are
shown in Table 7.5.2-1. It is noted that hybrid cells improve the outage
and edge user performance, while making little difference in high
throughput region. This is consistent with the expectation that with
hybrid cells, the network would be able to offload macro UEs in poor
channel conditions to close by hybrid cells. It is also interesting to
note that the improvements due to hybrid cell is much higher when
adaptive HeNB power control is not available (800% gain versus 60%
gain).

Note that backhaul limitation of CSG and hybrid cells are not modelled
in the simulations. For practical deployments, users close by a hybrid
cell is likely to be backhaul limited rather than air-interface limited.

![](media/image91.emf)![](media/image92.emf)

\(a\) CSG cells (b) Hybrid cells

Figure 7.5.2-1 C/I for CSG cells and hybrid cells deployments with 8 dBm
HeNB Tx power

![](media/image93.emf)![](media/image94.emf)

\(a\) CSG cells (b) Hybrid cells

Figure 7.5.2-2 Throughput for CSG cells and hybrid cells deployments
with 8 dBm HeNB Tx power

![](media/image95.emf)![](media/image96.emf)

\(a\) CSG cells (b) Hybrid cells

Figure 7.5.2-3 C/I for CSG cells and hybrid cells deployments with
adaptive HeNB Tx power

![](media/image97.emf)![](media/image98.emf)

\(a\) CSG cells (b) Hybrid cells

Figure 7.5.2-4 Throughput for CSG cells and hybrid cells deployments
with adaptive HeNB Tx power

Table 7.5.2-1 Summary of results

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | Outage         | Worst 20%      | Median         |
|                | Probability    | mobile         | throughput     |
|                |                | throughput     | (kbps)         |
|                | (SNR \< -6 dB) | (kbps)         |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| No HeNB        | 12.7%          | 35             | 150            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| CSG HeNB with  | 18.9%          | 100            | 5600           |
| fixed Tx power |                |                |                |
| of 8 dBm       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| CSG HeNB with  | 9.8 %          | 250            | 3300           |
| adaptive Tx    |                |                |                |
| power          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Hybrid HeNB    | 2%             | 900            | 5100           |
| with fixed Tx  |                |                |                |
| power of 8 dBm |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Hybrid HeNB    | 3%             | 400            | 3400           |
| with adaptive  |                |                |                |
| Tx power       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

### 7.5.3 Hybrid Cell RB Resource Management

For hybrid cells, non-CSG members consume RB resources at the HeNB, the
amount of which will depend on the number of non-CSG UEs and the service
level provided to the non-CSG UEs. One possible method of managing the
RB resources used at a HeNB for non-CSG UEs is to reserve some RB
resources for use by non-CSG UEs.

In hybrid access mode, if a HeNB accepts non-CSG members as temporary
users, it would degrade CSG members\' capacity similar to the open
access HeNB. Moreover, when HeNB is under heavily loading, non-CSG UEs
may be blocked first and diverted to macro eNBs. These diverted non-CSG
UEs that are still within the coverage of the hybrid access HeNB may
experience strong interferences from the HeNB.

In order to manage RB resource and mitigate the DL interference of the
hybrid cells, a method called \"Resource Priority Region (RPR)\" may be
used which guarantees a small percentage of HeNB resources for non-CSG
members.

The RPR for the hybrid access HeNB divides radio resources of a HeNB
into two regions for non-CSG members and CSG members respectively. The
detailed definitions for each resource region are:

1\. Non-CSG member priority region -- non-CSG members have higher
priority than CSG members.

2\. CSG member priority region -- CSG members have higher priority than
non-CSG members.

![](media/image99.png)

Fig.7.5.3-1 Resource Priority Region

A threshold -- *Priority Region Threshold* (PRT) is set to separate
resources between two priority regions. The PRT could be a time or
physical resource block (PRB) in radio frames, and PRT could be
statically or dynamically adjusted by exchanging ICIC messages between
HeNB and macro eNB. The HeNB could autonomously define the threshold for
release 9, and further enhancements allowing the threshold to be adapted
e.g. based on S1 signalling could be considered for release 10.

The hybrid access HeNB with RPR efficiently decreases the blocking
probability to non-CSG members when HeNB is exhausting its resource.
Also, this method guarantees the CSG members throughput that HeNB are
not affected by sharing the resource with non-CSG members.

### 7.5.4 Hybrid Cell Power Management

The optimum power setting for hybrid cells is likely to be different
than for closed cells, in that for closed cells the power is set as a
compromise between HeNB coverage and interference caused to neighbour
\"victim\" cells, whereas for hybrid HeNB it is set as a compromise
between overall system performance versus resources used at the HeNB by
non-CSG UEs.

Measurements made by the HeNB of neighbour cells (\"sniffing\") can be
used to set an appropriate downlink power. However the propagation
conditions between a neighbouring (H)eNB and its associated UEs may
differ significantly from the propagation conditions between a
neighbouring (H)eNB and the HeNB as measured during \"sniffing\".
Furthermore the propagation conditions between the HeNB and nearby
non-served UEs will not be known. These differences will result in
uncertainty when estimating the coverage of HeNB and neighbouring
(H)eNBs to non-served UEs.

One potential way to allow a hybrid access mode HeNB to get a more
accurate picture of its local environment is for the HeNB to request a
UE to measure RSRP and/or RSRQ of both source and target cells
immediately after a UE hands-in (active state) or registers with (idle
state) the HeNB. This would apply particularly to non-CSG UEs but could
also apply to CSG UEs. In this way the HeNB could, for example,
determine if the hand-in or re-selection is a) due to poor signal level
from the source (e.g. macro) cell or b) due to high interference from
the HeNB. This would then allow the HeNB to determine its output power
appropriately. For example if the signal is particularly poor on the
source (e.g. macro) cell, the HeNB could use a relatively high power
and/or provide relatively high access priorities for non CSG UEs,
compared to the case where the signal level on the source cell is not so
poor.

This basic approach would require no standards changes. Future standards
releases could consider more sophisticated approaches aimed at improved
performance e.g. based on UE storing measurement reports and/or events
prior to a hand-in or reselection of a HeNB, with subsequent reporting
to the HeNB.

########  Annex A (informative): Change History

+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| C     |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
| story |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| Date  | T     | TSG   | CR  | Rev | Subje | Old   | New   |
|       | SG \# | Doc.  |     |     | ct/Co |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | mment |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *200  | *RA   | *     |     |     | *TR   |       | *0    |
| 9-03* | N4\#5 | R4-09 |     |     | skel  |       | .0.1* |
|       | 0bis* | 1231* |     |     | eton* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *200  | *RA   | *     |     |     | *A    | *0    | *0    |
| 9-06* | N4\#5 | R4-09 |     |     | greed | .0.1* | .1.0* |
|       | 1bis* | 2253* |     |     | TPs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN4\ |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | #51:* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-091 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 787,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TDD   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | re    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | lated |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | terfe |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rence |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | scen  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | arios |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | deplo |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | yment |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | conf  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | igura |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | tions |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *200  | *RAN4 | *     |     |     | *A    | *0    | *0    |
| 9-08* | \#52* | R4-09 |     |     | greed | .1.0* | .2.0* |
|       |       | 2863* |     |     | TPs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4\#51 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | bis:* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-092 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 256,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ACLR  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | re    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | quire |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ments |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-092 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 258,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | freq  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | uency |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | error |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-092 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 259,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | p     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | erfor |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | mance |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | re    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | quire |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ments |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *200  | *RAN4 | *     |     |     | *A    | *0    | *0    |
| 9-08* | \#52* | R4-09 |     |     | greed | .2.0* | .3.0* |
|       |       | 3360* |     |     | TPs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN4\ |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | #52:* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 333,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | se    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ction |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 6.2.3 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | freq  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | uency |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | error |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CATT* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 325,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rec   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | eiver |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | s     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ensit |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ivity |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CATT* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 326,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | spu   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rious |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | emi   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ssion |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 327,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ACS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | r     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | equir |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ement |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 328,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | blo   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | cking |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | re    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | quire |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ments |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 329,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | dy    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | namic |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | range |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *200  | *RAN4 | *     |     |     | *A    | *0    | *0    |
| 9-11* | \#53* | R4-09 |     |     | greed | .3.0* | .4.0* |
|       |       | 4562* |     |     | TPs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4\#52 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | bis:* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 532,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Home |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | eNode |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | B     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rec   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | eiver |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ch    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | annel |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | s     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | elect |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ivity |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | r     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | equir |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ement |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CATT* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 973,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rec   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | eiver |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | re    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | quire |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ments |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-093 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 974,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | spu   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rious |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | emi   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ssion |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | r     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | equir |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ement |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-094 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 003,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | oper  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ating |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | band  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | unw   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | anted |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | emis  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | sions |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-094 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 004,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | t     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ransm |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | itter |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | inter |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | modul |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-094 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 005,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ACS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | n     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | arrow |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | band  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | blo   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | cking |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | re    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | quire |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ments |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-094 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 007,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Home |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | eNode |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | B     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rec   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | eiver |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | inter |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | modul |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | r     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | equir |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ement |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CATT* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-094 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 074,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Home |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | eNode |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | B     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | o     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | utput |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | power |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CATT* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-094 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 077,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | synch |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | roniz |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | re    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | quire |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ments |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Qual  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | comm* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *200  | *RAN  | *     |     |     | *Subm | *0    | *1    |
| 9-12* | \#46* | RP-09 |     |     | itted | .4.0* | .0.0* |
|       |       | 1149* |     |     | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pl    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | enary |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | forma |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | tion* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *RAN4 | *     |     |     | *A    | *1    | *1    |
| 0-01* | AdHo  | R4-10 |     |     | greed | .0.0* | .1.0* |
|       | c\#1* | 0176* |     |     | TPs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN4  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | #53:* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-094 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 563,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | T     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | D-LTE |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | p     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | erfor |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | mance |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | r     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | equir |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ement |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TR3   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 6.922 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CATT* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-094 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 985,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | "*TDD |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | synch |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | roniz |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | r     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | equir |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ement |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | large |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | p     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ropag |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | dis   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | tance |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | case  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Qua   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | lcomm |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Eu    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rope, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Nokia |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Si    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | emens |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Netw  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | orks, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | okia* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *RAN4 | *     |     |     | *A    | *1    | *1    |
| 0-02* | \#54* | R4-10 |     |     | greed | .1.0* | .2.0* |
|       |       | 1074* |     |     | TPs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN4  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | AdHoc |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \#1:* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-100 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 049,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TR    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 36    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | .922: |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TDD   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Synch |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | roniz |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | using |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Ne    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | twork |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | List  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ening |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Nokia |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Si    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | emens |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Netw  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | orks, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | okia, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Qua   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | lcomm |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Inc   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | orpor |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ated, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-100 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 177,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | LTE   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TDD   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | synch |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | roniz |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | r     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | equir |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ement |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Nokia |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Si    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | emens |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Net   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | work, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | okia, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Qua   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | lcomm |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Inc   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | orpor |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ated* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-100 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 178,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | LTE   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TDD   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | terfe |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rence |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | co    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ntrol |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-100 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 234,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TR    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 36    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | .922: |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | In    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | terfe |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rence |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | co    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ntrol |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | LTE   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Rel-9 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | cells |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Nokia |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Si    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | emens |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Netw  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | orks, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | okia, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Panas |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | onic* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *A    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | greed |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TPs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN4  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | #54:* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-100 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 328,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TR    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 36    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | .922: |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TDD   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Synch |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | roniz |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | using |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Ne    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | twork |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | List  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ening |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Nokia |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Si    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | emens |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Netw  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | orks, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | okia, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Qua   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | lcomm |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Inc   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | orpor |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ated, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-100 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 704,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | LTE   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TDD   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | terfe |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rence |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | co    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ntrol |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *R    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 4-100 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | 705,* |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | \"    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *Text |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Home  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | BS    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | adj   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | acent |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ch    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | annel |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | prote |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ction |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | *\"*, |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | CMCC* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *RAN4 | *     |     |     | *In   | *1    | *1    |
| 0-03* | \#54* | R4-10 |     |     | dices | .2.0* | .2.1* |
|       |       | 1078* |     |     | u     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pdate |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | edit  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | orial |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | modi  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ficat |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ions* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *RAN  | *     |     |     | *Subm | *1    | *1    |
| 0-03* | \#47* | RP-10 |     |     | itted | .2.1* | .3.0* |
|       |       | 0192* |     |     | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | pl    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | enary |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | appr  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | oval* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *RAN  | *     |     |     | *App  | *1    | *9    |
| 0-03* | \#47* | RP-10 |     |     | roved | .3.0* | .0.0* |
|       |       | 0192* |     |     | by    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | RAN*  |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | RP-48 | RP-1  | 001 |     | *Edit | 9.0.0 | 9.1.0 |
| 0-06* |       | 00627 |     |     | orial |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | mod   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ifica |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | tions |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | on    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TDD   |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | HeNB  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | TR36  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | .922* |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
|       | *S    |       |     |     | Upg   | *9    | *10   |
|       | P-51* |       |     |     | raded | .1.0* | .0.0* |
|       |       |       |     |     | unch  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | anged |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | Rel-9 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *S    | *-*   | *-* | *-* | U     | *10   | *11   |
| 2-09* | P-57* |       |     |     | pdate | .0.0* | .0.0* |
|       |       |       |     |     | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | el-11 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ve    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | (MCC) |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *S    | *-*   | *-* | *-* | U     | *11   | *12   |
| 4-09* | P-65* |       |     |     | pdate | .0.0* | .0.0* |
|       |       |       |     |     | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | el-12 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ve    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | (MCC) |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *S    | *-*   | *-* | *-* | U     | *12   | *13   |
| 6-01* | P-70* |       |     |     | pdate | .0.0* | .0.0* |
|       |       |       |     |     | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | el-13 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ve    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | (MCC) |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+
| *201  | *R    | *-*   | *-* | *-* | U     | *13   | *14   |
| 7-03* | P-75* |       |     |     | pdate | .0.0* | .0.0* |
|       |       |       |     |     | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | el-14 |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | ve    |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |     |     | (MCC) |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+

  **Change history**                                                                                          
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  2018-06              SA\#80        \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)   15.0.0
  2020-06              SA\#88                                                Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   16.0.0
