![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.975in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#general)

[7](#functions-on-the-transmit-tx-side)

[7](#background-acoustic-noise-evaluation)

[8](#modification-of-the-speech-encoding-algorithm-during-sid-frame-generation)

[9](#sid-frame-encoding)

[10](#functions-on-the-receive-rx-side)

[10](#averaging-of-the-gs-parameters)

[11](#comfort-noise-generation-and-updating)

[11](#computational-details)

[12](#annex-a-informative-change-request-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2
References 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Symbols 3.3 Abbreviations 4 General 5 Functions on the transmit (TX)
side 5.1 Background acoustic noise evaluation 5.2 Modification of the
speech encoding algorithm during SID frame generation 5.3 SID-frame
encoding 6 Functions on the receive (RX) side 6.1 Averaging of the GS
parameters 6.2 Comfort noise generation and updating 7 Computational
details Annex A (informative): Change Request History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document gives the detailed requirements for the correct
operation of the background acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter
encoding/decoding and comfort noise generation within the digital
cellular telecommunications system. The present document is part of a
series covering the half rate speech traffic channels as described
below:

GSM 06.02 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".

GSM 06.06 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; ANSI-C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".

GSM 06.07 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".

GSM 06.20 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".

GSM 06.21 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for half rate speech
traffic channels\".

**GSM 06.22 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Half rate speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic
channels\".**

GSM 06.41 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech
traffic channels\".

GSM 06.42 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document gives the detailed requirements for the correct
operation of the background acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter
encoding/decoding and comfort noise generation in GSM Mobile Stations
(MS)s and Base Station Systems (BSS)s during Discontinuous Transmission
(DTX) on half rate speech traffic channels.

The requirements described in the present document are mandatory for
implementation in all GSM MSs capable of supporting the half rate speech
traffic channel.

The receiver requirements are mandatory for implementation in all GSM
BSSs capable of supporting the half rate speech traffic channel, the
transmitter requirements are only for those where downlink DTX will be
used.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
    non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of
    that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".

\[2\] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Half rate speech transcoding\".

\[3\] GSM 06.41: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Half rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half
rate speech traffic channels\".

\[4\] GSM 06.42: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); \"Half rate speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half
rate speech traffic channels\".

\[5\] GSM 06.06: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Half rate speech; ANSI-C code for the GSM half rate speech
codec\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply.

**frame:** time interval of 20 ms corresponding to the time segmentation
of the half rate speech transcoder, also used as a short term for a
traffic frame.

**H(Z):** combination of the short term (spectral) filter A(z) and the
spectral weighting filter W(z).

**SID codeword:** fixed bit pattern for labelling a traffic frame as a
SID frame.

**SID field:** bit positions of the SID codeword within a SID frame.

**SID frame:** frame characterized by the SID (Silence Descriptor)
codeword. It conveys information on the acoustic background noise.

**SP flag:** speech flag.

**speech frame:** traffic frame that cannot be classified as a SID
frame.

**VAD flag:** Voice Activity Detector flag.

**W(Z):** spectral weighting filter of the GSM half rate speech codec.

Other definitions of terms used in the present document can be found in
GSM 06.20 \[2\] and GSM 06.41 \[3\]. The overall operation of DTX is
described in GSM 06.41 \[3\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

GS Energy tweak parameter.

R0 Frame energy value.

R(i) Unquantised (normalized) autocorrelation sequence.

rj Optimal reflection coefficient.

b

SUM ( x(n) ) = x(a) + x(a+1) + \.... + x(b‑1) + x(b); (Accumulation).

n=a

GSP0 codeword Vector quantization index, joint vector quantization of
the parameters GS and P0.

P0 Power contribution of the first excitation vector as a fraction of
the total excitation power at a subframe.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

AFLAT Autocorrelation Fixed Point LAttice Technique (used in the GSM
half rate speech codec for the vector quantization of the LPC
coefficients)

BSS Base Station System

DTX Discontinuous Transmission

ETS European Telecommunication Standard

GSM Global System for Mobile communications

MS Mobile Station

SID SIlence Descriptor

RX Receive

TX Transmit

VAD Voice Activity Detector

VQ Vector Quantization

For abbreviations not given in this subclause, see GSM 01.04 \[1\].

4 General
=========

A problem when using DTX is that the background acoustic noise, which is
transmitted together with the speech, would disappear when the radio
transmission is switched off, resulting in a modulation of the
background noise. Since the DTX switching can take place rapidly, it has
been found that this effect may be annoying for the listener, especially
in a car environment with high background noise levels. In bad cases,
the speech may be hardly intelligible.

The present document specifies a solution to overcome this problem by
generating synthetic noise similar to the transmit (TX) side background
noise on the receive (RX) side. The comfort noise parameters are
estimated on the TX side and transmitted to the RX side before the radio
transmission is switched off and at a regular low rate afterwards. This
allows the comfort noise to adapt to the changes of the noise on the TX
side.

5 Functions on the transmit (TX) side
=====================================

The comfort noise evaluation algorithm uses the following parameters of
the GSM half rate speech encoder, defined in GSM 06.20 \[2\]:

\- the unquantized frame energy value R0;

\- the unquantized (normalized) autocorrelation sequence R(i) derived
from the optimal reflection coefficients rj;

\- the quantized energy tweak parameter GS.

These parameters give information on the level (R0 and GS) and the
spectrum (R(i)) of the background noise.

Two of the evaluated comfort noise parameters (R0 and R(i)) are encoded
into a special frame, called a SIlence Descriptor (SID) frame, for
transmission to the RX side. While the energy tweak parameter GS can be
evaluated in the encoder and decoder in the same way as given in
subclause 5.1, therefore no transmission of GS is necessary.

The SID frame also serves to initiate the comfort noise generation on
the RX side, as a SID frame is always sent at the end of a speech burst,
i.e. before the radio transmission is terminated.

The scheduling of SID or speech frames on the radio path is described in
GSM 06.41 \[3\].

5.1 Background acoustic noise evaluation
----------------------------------------

The comfort noise parameters to be encoded into a SID frame are
calculated over 8 consecutive frames marked with Voice Activated
Detector (VAD) flag = \"0\", as follows:

The frame energy values shall be averaged according to the equation:

7

mean (R0\[j\]) = 1/8 SUM R0\[j-n\];

n=0

where:

R0\[j\] is the frame energy value of the current frame j (n=0);

R0\[j-n\] is the frame energy of the previous frames (n=1,\...,7);

n is the averaging period index n=0,1,\...,7;

j is the frame index.

The averaged value mean(R0\[j\]) is encoded using the same encoding
table that is also used by the GSM half rate speech codec for the
encoding of the non-averaged R0 values in ordinary speech encoding mode.

The (normalized) autocorrelation sequence R(i) shall be averaged
according to the equation:

7

mean (R\[j\](i)) = 1/8 SUM R\[j-n\](i) i = 0,1,2\...,10;

n=0

where:

R\[j\](i) is the i\'th autocorrelation value of the current frame j
(n=0);

R\[j-n\](i) is the i\'th autocorrelation value of one of the previous
frames (n=1,\...,7);

n is the averaging period index n=0,1\...,7;

j is the frame index.

The averaged values mean(R\[j\](i)) are used as input parameters of the
Autocorrelation Fixed Point LAttice Technique (AFLAT) recursion
algorithm which calculates the Vector Quantization (VQ) indices of the
reflection coefficients, see GSM 06.20 \[2\].

The SID frame containing the quantization index of mean(R0\[j\]), the VQ
indices of mean(R\[j\](i)) and the SID codeword is passed to the radio
subsystem instead of frame number j (see subclause 5.3, SID-frame
encoding).

The averaging of the energy tweak parameters GS is made on the basis of
the quantized GS parameters. The quantized GS parameters can be derived
from the GSP0 indices. These indices are used as pointers to the GSP0
vector quantization codebook. The GS components of the selected GSP0
vectors are the quantized GS values which will be averaged.

The quantized energy tweak parameters GS shall be averaged according to
the equation:

7 4

mean (GS\[j\]) = 1/28 SUM ( SUM GS\[j-n\](i) );

n=1 i=1

where:

GS\[j\](i) is the quantized energy tweak parameter in subframe i of the
current frame j (n=0);

GS\[j-n\](i) is the quantized energy tweak parameter in subframe i of
one of the last frames (n=1,\...7);

n is the averaging period index n=1,2,\...,7;

i is the subframe index i=1,2,3,4;

j is the frame index.

NOTE: The averaging of GS is made over 7 frames only.

For each comfort noise insertion period, the averaging of the GS
parameters is done only once before sending the first SID frame to the
decoder and for the rest of the comfort noise insertion period, the
averaged value mean(GS\[j\]) will be frozen.

Under normal conditions, the averaging of the GS parameters is done
during the hangover period, but in case of short speech bursts handling,
the hangover period can be skipped under certain conditions, see
GSM 06.41 \[3\]. In such cases, the GS parameters of the last seven
speech frames marked with SP flag=\"1\" are averaged.

The hangover period is defined in GSM 06.41 \[3\]. It is a period added
at the end of a speech burst in which no voice activity is detected (VAD
flag=\"0\"), but the speech encoder stays for the processing of 7 speech
frames in speech encoding mode (SP flag= \"1\"). This hangover period
and the first SID frame are used for averaging the comfort noise
parameters contained in the first SID frame.

mean(GS\[j\]) can be evaluated at the decoder in the same way as in the
encoder, because in both the encoder and decoder, the GSP0 indexes of
the last 7 speech frames shall be kept in memory. In case of an error
free transmission, the GSP0 indexes are identical at the encoder and
decoder.

5.2 Modification of the speech encoding algorithm during SID frame generation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the SP flag is equal to \"0\", the speech encoding algorithm is
modified in the following way:

\- the non-averaged reflection coefficients which are used to derive the
filter coefficients of the filters H(z) and W(z) of the speech encoder
are not quantized;

\- the unvoiced speech encoding mode is forced. This simplifies the open
loop long term prediction processing: only the integer lags have to be
calculated, no determination of fractional lags is necessary and the
frame lag trajectory derivation can be avoided;

\- no fixed codebook search is made. In each subframe, the indices of
both fixed codebooks (CODE1\_1, \...,CODE1\_4 and CODE2\_1,
\...,CODE2\_4) are replaced by pseudo random numbers uniformly
distributed in \[0,127\] (7 bit random numbers);

\- no GSP0 determination is made. The GSP0 codeword is selected as
follows:

\- at the beginning of a comfort noise insertion period, mean(GS\[j\])
is calculated as defined in subclause 5.1. Then mean(GS\[j\]) is
quantized, using only the GS component of the GSP0 vector quantization
codebook of the unvoiced speech encoding mode as quantization table. The
P0 parameter is not averaged. For this parameter, the value is used
which is associated with the quantized mean(GS\[j\]) value in the GSP0
codebook of the unvoiced speech encoding mode. For the rest of the
comfort noise insertion period, the GSP0 indices are frozen.

A simplified block diagram of the GSM half rate speech encoder in
comfort noise insertion mode is shown in figure 1.

Figure 1: GSM half rate speech encoder in comfort noise insertion mode

5.3 SID-frame encoding
----------------------

The SID frame encoding algorithm exploits the fact that only some of the
112 bits in a frame are needed to code the comfort noise parameters. The
other bits can then be used to mark the SID frame by means of a fixed
bit pattern, called the SID codeword.

SID frames are encoded in the encoder output format for voiced frames
(MODE = 3), because the two voicing mode bits are part of the SID
codeword.

The index of the frame energy value R0 is replaced by the quantization
index derived from mean(R0\[j\]). mean(R0\[j\]) is defined in subclause
5.1 and is encoded as described in GSM 06.20 \[2\].

The VQ indices of the reflection coefficients are replaced by VQ indices
derived from mean(R\[j\](i)). mean(R\[j\](i)) is defined in subclause
5.1 and the VQ of the reflection coefficients is described in
GSM 06.20 \[2\].

The SID codeword consists of 79 bits which are all \"1\". To mark a
frame as a SID frame, the parameters in table 1 have to be set as shown.

Table 1: SID codeword

  ----------- ---------------- -------------
  Parameter   Number of bits   Value (Hex)
  MODE        2                0x0003
  INT\_LPC    1                0x0001
  LAG\_1      8                0x00ff
  LAG\_2      4                0x000f
  LAG\_3      4                0x000f
  LAG\_4      4                0x000f
  CODE\_1     9                0x01ff
  CODE\_2     9                0x01ff
  CODE\_3     9                0x01ff
  CODE\_4     9                0x01ff
  GSP0\_1     5                0x001f
  GSP0\_2     5                0x001f
  GSP0\_3     5                0x001f
  GSP0\_4     5                0x001f
  ----------- ---------------- -------------

The parameters in table 1 are defined in GSM 06.20 \[2\].

6 Functions on the receive (RX) side
====================================

The situations in which comfort noise shall be generated on the RX side
are defined in GSM 06.41 \[3\] and may be started or updated whenever a
valid SID frame is received.

6.1 Averaging of the GS parameters
----------------------------------

When speech frames are received by the decoder, the GS parameters of the
last seven speech frames shall be kept in memory. As soon as a SID frame
is received, these stored GS parameters shall be averaged. The averaged
GS value will be frozen and used for the actual comfort noise insertion
period.

The averaging procedure works as follows:

\- when a speech frame is received, the GSP0 indices are decoded and the
decoded GS parts of these parameters are stored in memory;

\- when the first SID frame is received, the stored GS values are
averaged in the same way as in the speech encoder as follows (see also
subclause 5.1):

7 4

mean (GS\[j\]) = 1/28 SUM ( SUM GS\[j-n\](i) );

n=1 i=1;

where:

GS\[j\](i) is the quantized energy tweak parameter in subframe i of the
current frame j;

GS\[j-n\](i) is the quantized energy tweak parameter in subframe i of
one of the last frames;

n is the averaging period index n=1,2,\...,7;

i is the subframe index i=1,2,3,4;

j is the frame index;

\- then mean(GS\[j\]) is quantized, using the GS component of the GSP0
vector quantization codebook for the unvoiced speech encoding mode as
quantization table. The resulting index of this quantization is used for
one complete comfort noise insertion period as GSP0 codeword. The P0
parameter is not averaged. For this parameter, the value is used which
is associated with the quantized mean(GS\[j\]) value in the GSP0
codebook of the unvoiced speech encoding mode.

6.2 Comfort noise generation and updating
-----------------------------------------

The comfort noise generation procedure uses the GSM half rate speech
decoder algorithm defined in GSM 06.20 \[2\].

When comfort noise is to be generated, then the various encoded
parameters are set as in table 2.

Table 2: Comfort noise encoded parameters

+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| Parameter | Value                                                   |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| MODE      | 0                                                       |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| R0        | interpolation of the values received in the last two    |
|           | valid SID frames                                        |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| LPC1      | interpolation of the values received in the last two    |
|           | valid SID frames                                        |
| LPC2      |                                                         |
|           |                                                         |
| LPC3      |                                                         |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| INT\_LPC  | 1                                                       |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| CODE1\_1  | pseudo random numbers uniformly distributed             |
|           | in \[0,127\] (7 bit numbers)                            |
| CODE1\_2  |                                                         |
|           |                                                         |
| CODE1\_3  |                                                         |
|           |                                                         |
| CODE1\_4  |                                                         |
|           |                                                         |
| CODE2\_1  |                                                         |
|           |                                                         |
| CODE2\_2  |                                                         |
|           |                                                         |
| CODE2\_3  |                                                         |
|           |                                                         |
| CODE2\_4  |                                                         |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| GSP0\_1   | index of the averaged GS parameter                      |
|           |                                                         |
| GSP0\_2   | (calculated at the beginning of each comfort noise      |
|           | insertion period and frozen for the rest of the period) |
| GSP0\_3   |                                                         |
|           |                                                         |
| GSP0\_4   |                                                         |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+

With these parameters, the speech decoder now performs the standard
operations described in GSM 06.20 \[2\] and thereby synthesizes comfort
noise.

Updating of the comfort noise parameters (frame energy and LPC
coefficients) occurs each time a valid SID frame is received, as
described in GSM 06.41 \[3\].

NOTE: The GSP0 codewords are not updated, they are frozen during each
comfort noise insertion period.

When updating the comfort noise parameters (frame energy and LPC
coefficients), these parameters shall be interpolated over the SID
update period to obtain smooth transitions.

7 Computational details
=======================

A low level description has been prepared in form of an ANSI C source
code which is part of GSM 06.06 \[5\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change Request History

  ---------------- ----------- --------- ------------------ ------------- -----------------------------------------
  Change history                                                          
  SMG No.          TDoc. No.   CR. No.   Section affected   New version   Subject/Comments
  SMG\#15                                                   4.1.1         ETSI Publication
  SMG\#20                                                   5.1.0         Release 1996 version
  SMG\#27                                                   6.0.0         Release 1997 version
  SMG\#29                                                   7.0.0         Release 1998 version
                                                            7.0.1         Version update to 7.0.1 for Publication
  SMG\#31                                                   8.0.0         Release 1999 version
  ---------------- ----------- --------- ------------------ ------------- -----------------------------------------

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------ --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                     
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**      **Old**   **New**
  03-2001              11                                             Version for Release 4              4.0.0
  06-2002              16                                             Version for Release 5    4.0.0     5.0.0
  12-2004              26                                             Version for Release 6    5.0.0     6.0.0
  06-2007              36                                             Version for Release 7    6.0.0     7.0.0
  12-2008              42                                             Version for Release 8    7.0.0     8.0.0
  12-2009              46                                             Version for Release 9    8.0.0     9.0.0
  03-2011              51                                             Version for Release 10   9.0.0     10.0.0
  09-2012              57                                             Version for Release 11   10.0.0    11.0.0
  09-2014              65                                             Version for Release 12   11.0.0    12.0.0
  12-2015              70                                             Version for Release 13   12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------ --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  03-2017              SA\#75                                                Version for Release 14           14.0.0
  06-2018              SA\#80        \-         \-       \-        \-        Version for Release 15           15.0.0
  2020-07              \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
