![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.975in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#c-code-structure)

[6](#contents-of-the-c-source-code-disk)

[7](#program-execution)

[7](#code-hierarchy)

[13](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 C code
structure 4.1 Contents of the C source code disk 4.2 Program execution
4.3 Code hierarchy Annex A (informative): Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document provides the bit exact definition of the Enhanced
Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic codec for the digital cellular
telecommunications system.

An electronic attachment accompanies the present document, containing
clause 5, the bit‑exact ANSI‑C code for the Enhanced Full Rate speech
transcoder.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document contains an electronic copy of the ANSI‑C code for
the GSM Enhanced Full Rate codec. The ANSI‑C code is necessary for a bit
exact implementation of the Enhanced Full Rate speech transcoder
(GSM 06.60 \[3\]), Voice Activity Detection (GSM 06.82 \[7\]), comfort
noise (GSM 06.62 \[5\]), Discontinuous Transmission (GSM 06.81 \[6\])
and example solutions for substituting and muting of lost frames
(GSM 06.61 \[4\]).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
    non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of
    that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase
2+); Abbreviations and acronyms\".

\[2\] GSM 06.54: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Test sequences for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
codec\".

\[3\] GSM 06.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".

\[4\] GSM 06.61: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Substitution and muting of lost frame for Enhanced Full Rate
(EFR) speech traffic channels\".

\[5\] GSM 06.62: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Comfort noise aspects for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
traffic channels\".

\[6\] GSM 06.81: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Discontinuous transmission (DTX) for Enhanced Full Rate
(EFR) speech traffic channels\".

\[7\] GSM 06.82: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR)
speech traffic channels\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations 
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

Definition of terms used in the present document can be found in
GSM 06.60 \[3\], GSM 06.61 \[4\], GSM 06.62 \[5\], GSM 06.81 \[6\] and
GSM 06.82 \[7\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

ANSI American National Standards Institute

DS‑HD Double Sided High Density

ETS European Telecommunication Standard

GSM Global System for Mobile communications

I/O Input/Output

ROM Read Only Memory

For abbreviations not given in this clause see GSM 01.04 \[1\].

4 C code structure
==================

This clause gives an overview of the structure of the bit‑exact C code
and provides an overview of the contents and organization of the archive
en\_300724v080000o0.ZIP which accompanies the present document.

The C code has been verified on the following systems:

‑ Sun Microsystems [^1]**^)^** workstations and Sun Microsystems cc
compiler and gcc compiler;

‑ IBM [^2]**^)^** PC/AT compatible computers and Borland Turbo‑C++
[^3]**^)^** compiler;

‑ Hewlett Packard\'s [^4]**^)^** workstations and HP cc compiler;

ANSI‑C 9899 was selected as the programming language because portability
was desirable.

4.1 Contents of the C source code disk
--------------------------------------

The C code disk has all of the files in the root level.

In this disk, the files with suffix \"c\" contain the source code and
the files with suffix \"h\" are the header files. The ROM data is
contained mostly in files with suffix \"tab\". All text files are
formatted such that they are correct for an IBM PC/AT compatible.

The archive en\_300724v080000o0.ZIP which accompanies the present
document contains one speech coder installation verification data file,
\"spch\_dos.inp\". The reference encoder output file is named
\"spch\_dos.cod\", the reference decoder input file is named
\"spch\_dos.dec\" and the reference decoder output file is named
\"spch\_dos.out\". These four files are formatted such that they are
correct for an IBM PC/AT compatible. The same files with reversed byte
order of the 16 bit words are named \"spch\_unx.inp\",
\"spch\_unx.cod\", \"spch\_unx.\"dec\" and \"spch\_unx.out\",
respectively.

In an IBM PC/AT compatible platform, the installation verification can
be performed by running the batch file \"ts\_dos.bat\". In most UNIX
platforms, the installation verification can be performed by running the
batch file \"ts\_unx.bat\". Final verification is to be performed using
the GSM Enhanced Full Rate test sequences described in GSM 06.54 \[2\].

Makefiles are provided for the three platforms in which the C code has
been verified (listed above). Once the software is installed, this
directory will have compiled versions of *coder* and *decoder* (the
bit‑exact C executables of the speech codec), *ed\_iface* (interface
program between coder and decoder) and all the object files.

The programs *coder* and *decoder* are the GSM Enhanced Full Rate
encoder and decoder executable files, respectively. A third program,
*ed\_iface*, is also contained in this directory. This is the program
which provides the format conversion between the encoder output file
format and the decoder input file format.

4.2 Program execution
---------------------

The GSM enhanced full rate speech codec is implemented as three separate
programs:

‑ (*coder*) speech encoder;

‑ *(ed\_iface)* encoder/decoder interface;

‑ (*decoder*) speech decoder.

For encoding using the *coder* program, the input is a binary speech
file (\*.inp) and the output is a binary encoded parameter file
(\*.cod). For decoding using the *decoder* program, the input is a
binary parameter file (\*.dec) and the output is a binary synthesized
speech file (\*.out).

NOTE: The format for the parameter input file required for decoding
(\*.dec) is not the same as the format of the parameter output file
generated by encoding (\*.cod). The *ed\_iface* program will translate
an \*.cod file into a \*.dec file.

See the file readme.txt for more information on how to run the coder,
*ed\_iface* and *decoder* programs.

4.3 Code hierarchy
------------------

Figures 1 to 5 are call graphs that show the functions used in the
speech codec, including the functions of VAD, DTX, and comfort noise
generation.

The encode call graph is broken down into three separate call graphs,
and the decode call graph is broken down into two separate call graphs.
Those clauses which are large are separated from the primary call tree
and given their own call tree. Each vertical column represents a call
level. For example, main() is at level 0, Coder\_12k2() at level 1,
Int\_lpc2() at level 2, Lsp\_Az() at level 3, Get\_lsp\_pol() at
level 4, etc. The basic operations are not counted as extending the
depth, therefore the deepest level in this software is level 4.

Some items have been omitted from this call graph. All standard C
functions: printf(), fwrite(), etc. have been omitted. Also, no basic
operations (add(), L\_add(), mac(), etc.) or double precision extended
operations (e.g. L\_Extract()) appear in the graphs. The reset functions
of the encoder and decoder are only visible as the functions reset\_enc
and reset\_dec, respectively. There are several subroutine calls from
inside these functions.

The time order in the call graphs is from the bottom upwards as the
processing of a frame advances.

Figure 1: Speech encoder call graph (see figures 2 and 3)

Figure 2: Speech encoder subframe processing call graph

Figure 3: Voice Activity Detector (VAD) call graph

Figure 4: Speech decoder call graph (see figure 5)

Figure 5: Speech decoder postfilter call graph

######## Annex A (informative): Change History

  ---------------- ----------- --------- ----------------- ------------- -----------------------------------------
  Change history                                                         
  SMG No.          TDoc. No.   CR. No.   Clause affected   New version   Subject/Comments
  SMG\#23                                                  4.0.1         ETSI Publication
  SMG\#20                                                  5.1.2         Release 1996 version
  SMG\#27                                                  6.0.0         Release 1997 version
  SMG\#29                                                  7.0.0         Release 1998 version
                                                           7.0.1         Version update to 7.0.1 for Publication
  SMG\#31                                                  8.0.0         Release 1999 version
                                                           8.0.1         Update to Version 8.0.1 for Publication
  ---------------- ----------- --------- ----------------- ------------- -----------------------------------------

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------ --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                     
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**      **Old**   **New**
  03-2001              11                                             Version for Release 4              4.0.0
  06-2002              16                                             Version for Release 5    4.0.0     5.0.0
  12-2004              26                                             Version for Release 6    5.0.0     6.0.0
  06-2007              36                                             Version for Release 7    6.0.0     7.0.0
  12-2008              42                                             Version for Release 8    7.0.0     8.0.0
  12-2009              46                                             Version for Release 9    8.0.0     9.0.0
  03-2011              51                                             Version for Release 10   9.0.0     10.0.0
  09-2012              57                                             Version for Release 11   10.0.0    11.0.0
  09-2014              65                                             Version for Release 12   11.0.0    12.0.0
  12-2015              70                                             Version for Release 13   12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------ --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  03-2017              SA\#75                                                Version for Release 14           14.0.0
  06-2018              SA\#80        \-         \-       \-        \-        Version for Release 15           15.0.0
  2020-07              \-            \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------

[^1]: **^1\ )^** Registered trade mark of Sun Microsystems

[^2]: **^2\ )^** Registered trade mark of International Business
    Machines

[^3]: **^3\ )^** Registered trade mark of Borland

[^4]: **^4\ )^** Registered trade mark of Hewlett Packard
