![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#general)

[6](#specific-implementation-on-the-radio-interface)

[6](#ms-behaviour-during-one-phase-contention-resolution)

[6](#justification)

[6](#solution)

[6](#implementation-requirements)

[6](#support-of-legacy-mobiles)

[6](#roaming)

[6](#justification-1)

[7](#solution-1)

[7](#implementation-requirements-1)

[7](#support-of-legacy-mobiles-1)

[7](#early-classmark-sending-on-pbcch-cell)

[7](#justification-2)

[7](#solution-2)

[7](#implementation-requirements-2)

[8](#support-of-legacy-mobiles-2)

[8](#conditions-for-iov-reset)

[8](#justification-3)

[8](#solution-3)

[8](#implementation-requirements-3)

[8](#support-of-legacy-mobiles-3)

[8](#two-message-packet-downlink-assignment-on-ccch)

[8](#justification-4)

[8](#solution-4)

[9](#implementation-requirements-4)

[9](#support-of-legacy-mobiles-4)

[9](#negotiation-of-sndcp-compression-entities)

[9](#justification-5)

[9](#solution-5)

[9](#implementation-requirements-5)

[9](#support-of-legacy-mobiles-5)

[11](#annex-a-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 General 5 Specific implementation on the radio interface
5.1 MS behaviour during one phase contention resolution 5.1.1
Justification 5.1.2 Solution 5.1.3 Implementation requirements 5.1.4
Support of Legacy mobiles 5.2 Roaming 5.2.1 Justification 5.2.2 Solution
5.2.3 Implementation requirements 5.2.4 Support of Legacy mobiles 5.3
Early Classmark Sending on PBCCH cell 5.3.1 Justification 5.3.2 Solution
5.3.3 Implementation requirements 5.3.4 Support of Legacy mobiles 5.4
Conditions for IOV reset 5.4.1 Justification 5.4.2 Solution 5.4.3
Implementation requirements 5.4.4 Support of Legacy mobiles 5.5
Two-message packet downlink assignment on CCCH 5.5.1 Justification 5.5.2
Solution 5.5.3 Implementation requirements 5.5.4 Support of Legacy
mobiles 5.6 Negotiation of SNDCP compression entities 5.6.1
Justification 5.6.2 Solution 5.6.3 Implementation requirements 5.6.4
Support of Legacy mobiles Annex A: Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

This report describes issues relating to the GPRS specifications, which
lead to the specifications being modified after the placement of GPRS
compliant mobiles into the market place.

Where possible the present report clarifies any recommended measures
which may be adopted by the GPRS infrastructure to enable interworking
to be obtained between the GPRS infrastructure and legacy Mobile Station
(MS) implementations of the GPRS specifications.

For each issue this report also defines the time after which all new
GPRS mobiles are required to meet the modified specifications.

The lifetime of the herein described measures together with their
potential impact on optimal network performance is out of the scope of
the present document.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

3 Abbreviations
===============

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905
\[1\].

4 General
=========

In the implementation of the GPRS standard it has been found that some
aspects of GPRS have not been fully covered and as a result late changes
have been made to the specifications.

This has lead to the situation where existing GPRS mobiles (i.e. those
already in the field) no longer aligned with the latest version of the
specifications. These \'legacy\' mobiles will not be modified; however,
where possible the present report clarifies any recommended measures
which may be adopted by the GPRS infrastructure to enable interworking
to be obtained between the GPRS infrastructure and these legacy Mobile
Station (MS).

In addition and to ensure sufficient time for implementation and testing
of modified GPRS implementation (MS and network) this TR specifies the
point in time at which the specification modification come into force.
After this point in time all new GPRS mobiles will be required to
support the modified specification and all GPRS networks will be
expected to handle the new mobile behaviour correctly.

The remainder of this TR describes how to overcome the possible impacts
of the above factors.

5 Specific implementation on the radio interface
================================================

5.1 MS behaviour during one phase contention resolution
-------------------------------------------------------

### 5.1.1 Justification

It has been found that in some instances the one phase contention
resolution procedure leads to interoperability issues.

### 5.1.2 Solution

To avoid interoperability issues, TSG GERAN\#3 agreed on the following
mobile station behaviour during the contention resolution phase (CR
04.60-A952):

1 A mobile station shall accept a Packet Uplink Assignment addressing it
by the uplink TFI or TLLI; the mobile station shall act on this message
according to the procedures defined in packet transfer mode during
operation on an uplink TBF. If a valid RRBP field is received as part of
this message, the mobile station shall transmit a Packet Control
Acknowledgment in the block specified in uplink.

2 A mobile station may act on the other non-distribution messages
addressing the mobile station with the TFI or TLLI, and may transmit a
Packet Control Acknowledgment when a valid RRBP field is received in
downlink RLC/MAC control blocks

3 A mobile station shall not answer to a polling request received in a
Packet Uplink Ack/Nack message in case it includes a TLLI addressing
another mobile station; then an ambiguous word is deleted in 3GPP TS
04.60 sub-clause 10.4.5.

4 To prevent a mobile station receiving downlink data intended to
another mobile station, it is required that a mobile station in
contention resolution phase shall not accept a PACKET DOWNLINK
ASSIGNMENT nor a PACKET TIMESLOT RECONFIGURE message, whatever the
address used in these assignment messages.

### 5.1.3 Implementation requirements

All new GPRS mobiles shall support the basic contention resolution
procedure (covered by points 1, 2, and 3) as soon as the relevant
specification (GSM 04.60 v6.12.0) is published by 3GPP.

All new GPRS mobiles shall support the complete contention resolution
procedure (covered by points 1, 2, 3, and 4) within four months of the
relevant specification (GSM 04.60 v6.12.0) being published by 3GPP.

### 5.1.4 Support of Legacy mobiles

In order to force the rejection of occasional LLC frames that may be
received by the wrong mobile station, ciphering needs to be applied.
This will cause an LLC frame that is received by the wrong mobile
station to be rejected by the receiving LLC entity.

5.2 Roaming
-----------

### 5.2.1 Justification

It has been found that where two operators have a CS roaming agreement
but no GPRS roaming agreement the GPRS specifications cause the user's
SIM to be \"invalidated for GPRS service\".

This means, for example, that a user roaming from his home network into
a visited network and back to his home network will see an inconsistent
level of GPRS service. In other words a service which was working
(before the user roamed) will no longer be working even though the user
has returned to the original network which provided GPRS service.

### 5.2.2 Solution

To avoid the SIM being invalidated unnecessarily TSG CN\#11 agreed to a
modification to the GPRS specifications, which allows a network to
reject a mobile\'s GPRS Attach request with a new GMM cause code \"GPRS
services not allowed in the current PLMN\".

The new rejection cause value \"GPRS services not allowed in this
PLMN\"(\#14) can be indicated to the MS during GPRS attach, detach and
RAU in a PLMN which does not offer GPRS roaming to that MS. When an MS
receives this cause code it shall not attempt a new GPRS attach before
entering a new PLMN on which it hasn\'t be rejected with the same cause
after the last switch on.

In order to memorise the PLMNs on which the MS has been rejected with
\#14, a new PLMN list is introduced, which should be deleted when the MS
is switched off. The list is introduced in order to avoid subsequent
registration attempts if either the MS (in class C mode), or the user
(in class A/B mode) triggers a PLMN reselection after reception of \#14.

### 5.2.3 Implementation requirements

All new GPRS mobiles shall support the handling of the new cause value
within four months of the relevant specification (04.08 v6.14.0) being
published by 3GPP.

### 5.2.4 Support of Legacy mobiles

To restore the SIM to proper operation for GPRS service the user needs
to power off and on the mobile. As defined by the specifications, this
resets the SIM to its original state and removes the information
indicating that the SIM is invalid for GPRS service.

The use of cause value \#14 (or any other cause value which is not
defined in the reference specification of the MS), towards some of the
roaming legacy mobiles which were implemented prior to the date laid
down in 5.2.3, operating in a network using Network Mode of Operation I
(NMO I), may lead to those legacy mobiles not receiving service (see
04.08 subclauses 4.2.4.2.2 and 4.7.3.1.5). This means that the behaviour
of some roaming legacy mobiles may be unpredictable in NMO I if cause
value \#14 is used towards those legacy mobiles.

5.3 Early Classmark Sending on PBCCH cell
-----------------------------------------

### 5.3.1 Justification

It was found that the Early Classmark Sending Capability (ECSC) bit is
present on BCCH in SI3 but is not present on PBCCH.

If the MS considers that early classmark sending is not allowed by the
network, it will not spontaneously send a CLASSMARK CHANGE message when
a call is initiated, and the Classmark 3 IE will not be received by the
network. This may result in that the MS will not receive expected
service from the network based on actual MS capabilities.

Three different mobile implementations have been identified for a GPRS
R97 mobile on a PBCCH cell:

a\) The MS systematically reads SI3 on BCCH and uses the ECSC value,

b\) When the MS does not read SI3, it systematically sends early
classmark message,

c\) When the MS does not read SI3, the MS never sends early classmark
message.

### 5.3.2 Solution

TSG GERAN\#07 has agreed that the three mobile implementations are
acceptable for a GPRS R97 MS.

### 5.3.3 Implementation requirements

The systematic reception of an early CLASSMARK CHANGE message shall be
supported by the BSS, even though the BSS may ignore the content of the
message.

### 5.3.4 Support of Legacy mobiles

The network may initiate a classmark interrogation procedure (see 3GPP
TS 04.08) to get the Classmark 3 information from the MS.

5.4 Conditions for IOV reset
----------------------------

### 5.4.1 Justification

It was found that the term \"change of Kc\" used in 3GPP TS 04.64 sec.
8.9.2 was interpreted differently.

Two different mobile implementations have been identified for a GPRS R98
mobile for the case that the network uses the same authentication
triplets twice:

a\) the MS does not reset the IOV value to its default value, but keeps
the current value;

b\) the MS resets the IOV value to its default value.

### 5.4.2 Solution

TSG-CN1 Meeting \#21has agreed that only the behaviour described in
5.4.1 a) is correct and has clarified this behaviour in the
corresponding CR 04.64 A155.

### 5.4.3 Implementation requirements

All new GPRS mobiles shall support the correct behaviour of the IOV
handling described above within four months of the relevant
specification (04.64 v7.4.0) being published by 3GPP.

### 5.4.4 Support of Legacy mobiles

After the assignment of the same Kc value, in order to avoid different
IOV values in the SGSN and the legacy mobile station, the SGSN may
negotiate a random IOV value, after the authentication procedure is
completed.

5.5 Two-message packet downlink assignment on CCCH
--------------------------------------------------

### 5.5.1 Justification

It has been found that the \'downlink' bit in the *Dedicated Mode or
TBF* information element has been implemented differently.

The *Dedicated Mode or TBF* information element is used in the IMMEDIATE
ASSIGNMENT message on CCCH. The \'downlink' bit is significant at a
packet downlink assignment using this message. If the mobile station has
received a first IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message where the *Dedicated Mode
or TBF* information element indicates that this is the first message in
a two-message assignment (3GPPÂ TSÂ 04.08), two different implementations
have been identified for a GPRS R98 mobile station:

a\) The mobile station expects a second IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message
with the \'downlink' bit set to \'0' in the *Dedicated Mode or TBF*
information element.

b\) The mobile station expects a second IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message
with the \'downlink' bit set to \'1' in the *Dedicated Mode or TBF*
information element.

In each case, if there is no second IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message
received with the \'downlink' bit set to the expected value, the
two-message assignment procedure fails.

### 5.5.2 Solution

TSG GERAN meeting \#12 has agreed that the two implementations are
acceptable for a GPRS R98 mobile station.

### 5.5.3 Implementation requirements

Not applicable to GPRS R98.

### 5.5.4 Support of Legacy mobiles

The network may avoid using the two-message assignment procedure for
packet downlink assignment. If frequency hopping shall be applied and
the *direct encoding* of the frequency parameters does not fit into a
single IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message, the network may use *indirect
encoding* of the frequency parameters.

5.6 Negotiation of SNDCP compression entities
---------------------------------------------

### 5.6.1 Justification

It has been found that the negotiation of SNDCP compression entities
with unknown algorithm type described in 3GPP TS 44.065 subclause 6.8
was interpreted differently up to and including version 6.2.0 of the TS.

According to 3GPP TS 44.065 subclauses 6.8.1 andÂ 6.8.2, an SNDCP entity
can accept a compression entity proposed by its peer SNDCP entity by not
including it in the responding SNDCP XID block.

On the other hand, according to subclause 6.8.3, exception handling:

> \"In this subclause, the term \"parameter\" may refer, wherever
> applicable, to an SNDCP XID parameter, a compression field (for
> parameter type 1 or 2), or a parameter for a compression field. If the
> originating SNDCP XID block includes a parameter with **unrecognised
> Type field**, the parameter shall be ignored by the responder.\"

Some manufacturers have interpreted the above requirement in such a way
that it applies also to the parameter \"algorithm type\" in the SNDCP
XID parameters \"protocol control information compression\" and \"data
compression\".

With such an interpretation, in some scenarios the SNDCP entity
originating the XID negotiation cannot decide whether the peer SNDCP
entity did not respond to a proposed compression entity in order to
accept it or because it did not know the algorithm and therefore ignored
the proposed compression entity.

In particular, some R97/98 MS implementations ignore a proposal for a
protocol control information compression with algorithm type RFC2507,
because this algorithm was only introduced in R99. Since the MS does not
explicitly reject the proposed compression entity for RFC2507, a R99
SGSN following subclauses 6.8.1 and 6.8.2 may assume that the MS has
accepted the proposal and will start using this compression entity. The
MS will then discard the downlink packets compressed by the SGSN with
RFC2507.

### 5.6.2 Solution

TSG-CN \#25 approved the CR 015r2 to 3GPP TS 44.065 for Rel-4 and CR
016r2 from Rel-5 onwards. These CRs mandate explicit rejection of
non-supported compression algorithms to remove the ambiguity.

### 5.6.3 Implementation requirements

All new GPRS mobile stations shall support the explicit rejection of
non-supported compression algorithms as described above within four
months of the relevant specification being approved by 3GPP.

NOTE: This subclause was added in the present document in TSG-GERAN
meeting \#24 in April 2005.

### 5.6.4 Support of Legacy mobiles

For the algorithm RFC2507 which was introduced in R99, the SNDCP entity
in the network originating the XID negotiation can resolve this
ambiguity by evaluating the revision level of its peer entity (revision
level in the MS network capability IE), since a R99 implementation
cannot treat RFC2507 as unknown compression algorithm. To this purpose
the SNDCP entity in the network needs to be informed about the revision
level of the mobile station.

If the mobile station uses SNDCP version 0 and does not explicitly reply
to the proposal for a compression entity, and the revision level of the
mobile station is

\- \'GSM phase 2\':

the SGSN may assume that the entity was rejected, if the proposed
algorithm was introduced in R99 or later. If the algorithm was
introduced before R99, the network shall proceed as specified in TS
44.065;

\- \'R99 or later\':

the SGSN may assume that the entity was rejected, if the proposed
algorithm was introduced in Rel-4 or later. If the algorithm was
introduced in R99 or earlier, the network shall proceed as specified in
TS 44.065.

######### Annex A: Change history

  -------------------- ----------------- -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                               
  **Date**             **TSGÂ GERAN\#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                           **Old**   **New**
  2001-04              04                GP-010917                         Version for Release 1998                                                7.0.0
  2001-11              07                GP-012829      A004     1         Support of Early Classmark Sending by an PBCCH capable cell   7.0.0     7.1.0
  2002-02              08                GP-020402      A006               Conditions for IOV reset                                      7.1.0     7.2.0
  2002-12              12                GP-023241      A008     2         Use of Cause \#14 in networks using NMO I                     7.2.0     7.3.0
  2002-02              12                GP-023243      A010     1         Two-message packet downlink assignment on CCCH                7.2.0     7.3.0
  2005-04              24                GP-050824      003                Negotiation of SNDCP Compression Entities                     7.3.0     6.0.0
  2007-08              35                                                  Version for Release 7                                         6.0.0     7.0.0
  2008-12              40                                                  Version for Release 8                                         7.0.0     8.0.0
  2009-12              44                                                  Version for Release 9                                         8.0.0     9.0.0
  2011-03              49                                                  Version for Release 10                                        9.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              55                                                  Version for Release 11                                        10.0.0    11.0.0
  2014-09              63                                                  Version for Release 12 (frozen at SP-65)                      11.0.0    12.0.0
  2015-12              68                                                  Version for Release 13 (frozen at SP-70)                      12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ----------------- -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                              
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                  **New version**
  2017-03              RP-75                                                 Version for Release 14 (frozen at TSG-75)            14.0.0
  2018-06              RP-80         \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                       15.0.0
  2020-07              RP-88e        \-         \-       \-        \-        Upgrade to Rel-16 version without technical change   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------
