Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[6](#foreword)

[7](#scope)

[7](#references)

[7](#abbreviations)

[8](#the-forwarded-to-number)

[8](#cross-phase-compatibility)

[8](#support-of-long-forwarded-to-numbers)

[8](#data-stored-in-the-hlr-for-all-call-forwarding-services)

[9](#call-forwarding-unconditional-cfu)

[9](#handling-of-call-forwarding-unconditional)

[9](#registration)

[11](#erasure)

[13](#activation)

[15](#deactivation)

[17](#interrogation)

[18](#functions-and-information-flows)

[20](#information-stored-in-the-hlr)

[21](#state-transition-model)

[22](#transfer-of-information-from-hlr-to-vlr)

[22](#information-stored-in-the-vlr)

[22](#handover)

[23](#cross-phase-compatibility-1)

[23](#ms-msc-vlr-or-hlr-only-support-phase-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber)

[23](#hlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information)

[23](#vlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information)

[23](#gmsc-only-supports-phase-1-call-handling)

[23](#gmsc-does-not-support-camel-or-supports-camel-phase-1-only)

[24](#contents-of-messages)

[24](#messages-on-the-c-interface-msc-hlr)

[24](#send-routing-info)

[24](#send-routing-info-ack)

[24](#messages-on-the-um-b-and-d-interfaces-ms-network)

[24](#registerss)

[24](#activatess)

[25](#interrogatess)

[25](#information-flows-on-the-j-interface-hlr-gsmscf)

[25](#any-time-subscription-interrogation)

[25](#any-time-subscription-interrogation-ack)

[25](#any-time-modification)

[25](#any-time-modification-ack)

[26](#exceptional-procedures)

[26](#ms-does-not-support-long-forwarded-to-numbers)

[26](#hlr-does-not-support-long-forwarded-to-numbers)

[26](#gmsc-does-not-support-long-forwarded-to-numbers)

[26](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-busy)

[26](#handling-of-call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-busy)

[26](#registration-1)

[29](#erasure-1)

[30](#activation-1)

[33](#deactivation-1)

[34](#interrogation-1)

[34](#functions-and-information-flows-1)

[34](#call-re-routed-from-vlr)

[34](#call-re-routed-from-hlr)

[41](#information-stored-in-the-hlr-1)

[41](#state-transition-model-1)

[42](#transfer-of-information-from-hlr-to-vlr-1)

[42](#information-stored-in-the-vlr-1)

[43](#handover-1)

[43](#cross-phase-compatibility-2)

[43](#ms-msc-vlr-or-hlr-only-support-phase-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-1)

[43](#hlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information-1)

[43](#vlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information-1)

[43](#vlr-only-supports-phase-1-call-handling)

[44](#vlr-does-not-support-camel-or-supports-camel-phase-1-only)

[44](#gmsc-only-supports-phase-1-call-handling-1)

[44](#gmsc-does-not-support-camel-or-supports-camel-phase-1-only-1)

[44](#contents-of-messages-1)

[44](#messages-on-the-b-interface-msc-vlr)

[44](#send-info-for-incoming-call-ack)

[45](#messages-on-the-d-interface-vlr-hlr)

[45](#insert-subscriber-data)

[45](#update-location)

[45](#provide-roaming-number)

[45](#restore-data)

[45](#messages-on-the-e-interface-vmsc-gmsc)

[45](#resume-call-handling)

[46](#messages-on-the-msc-internal-interface)

[46](#perform-call-forwarding)

[46](#perform-call-forwarding-ack)

[46](#support-of-long-forwarded-to-numbers-1)

[46](#ms-does-not-support-long-forwarded-to-numbers-1)

[46](#hlr-does-not-support-long-forwarded-to-numbers-1)

[46](#gmsc-does-not-support-long-forwarded-to-numbers-1)

[46](#mscvlr-does-not-support-long-forwarded-to-numbers)

[47](#call-forwarding-on-no-reply)

[47](#handling-of-call-forwarding-on-no-reply)

[47](#registration-2)

[50](#erasure-2)

[51](#activation-2)

[53](#deactivation-2)

[54](#interrogation-2)

[54](#functions-and-information-flows-2)

[58](#information-stored-in-the-hlr-2)

[58](#state-transition-model-2)

[59](#transfer-of-information-from-hlr-to-vlr-2)

[59](#information-stored-in-the-vlr-2)

[60](#handover-2)

[60](#cross-phase-compatibility-3)

[60](#ms-msc-vlr-or-hlr-only-support-phase-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-2)

[60](#hlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information-2)

[60](#vlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information-2)

[60](#vlr-only-supports-phase-1-call-handling-1)

[61](#vlr-does-not-support-camel-or-supports-camel-phase-1-only-1)

[61](#contents-of-messages-2)

[61](#support-of-long-forwarded-to-numbers-2)

[61](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-not-reachable)

[61](#handling-of-call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-not-reachable)

[61](#registration-3)

[64](#erasure-3)

[65](#activation-3)

[67](#deactivation-3)

[68](#interrogation-3)

[68](#functions-and-information-flows-3)

[68](#call-re-routed-from-vlr-1)

[68](#call-re-routed-from-hlr-1)

[78](#call-re-routed-from-hlr-for-pre-paging)

[82](#information-stored-in-the-hlr-3)

[83](#state-transition-model-3)

[84](#transfer-of-information-from-hlr-to-vlr-3)

[84](#information-stored-in-the-vlr-3)

[85](#handover-3)

[85](#cross-phase-compatibility-4)

[85](#ms-msc-vlr-or-hlr-only-support-phase-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-3)

[85](#hlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information-3)

[85](#vlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information-3)

[85](#gmsc-only-supports-phase-1-call-handling-2)

[85](#vlr-only-supports-phase-1-call-handling-2)

[86](#vlr-does-not-support-camel-or-supports-camel-phase-1-only-2)

[86](#gmsc-does-not-support-camel-or-supports-camel-phase-1-only-2)

[86](#contents-of-messages-3)

[86](#support-of-long-forwarded-to-numbers-3)

[87](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 0 Scope 0.1 References
0.2 Abbreviations 0.3 The forwarded-to number 0.4 Cross phase
compatibility 0.5 Support of Long Forwarded-to Numbers 0.6 Data stored
in the HLR for all call forwarding services 1 Call forwarding
unconditional (CFU) 1.1 Handling of call forwarding unconditional 1.1.1
Registration 1.1.2 Erasure 1.1.3 Activation 1.1.4 Deactivation 1.1.5
Interrogation 1.2 Functions and information flows 1.3 Information stored
in the HLR 1.4 State transition model 1.5 Transfer of information from
HLR to VLR 1.6 Information stored in the VLR 1.7 Handover 1.8 Cross
phase compatibility 1.8.1 MS, MSC, VLR or HLR only support Phase 1
control of SS by the subscriber 1.8.2 HLR only supports Phase 1 updating
of subscriber information 1.8.3 VLR only supports Phase 1 updating of
subscriber information 1.8.4 GMSC only supports Phase 1 call handling
1.8.5 GMSC does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only 1.9
Contents of Messages 1.9.1 Messages on the C interface (MSC-HLR) 1.9.1.1
Send Routing Info 1.9.1.2 Send Routing Info ack 1.9.2 Messages on the
Um, B and D interfaces (MS -- network) 1.9.2.1 RegisterSS 1.9.2.2
ActivateSS 1.9.2.3 InterrogateSS 1.9.3 Information flows on the J
interface (HLR -- gsmSCF) 1.9.3.1 Any Time Subscription Interrogation
1.9.3.2 Any Time Subscription Interrogation ack 1.9.3.3 Any Time
Modification 1.9.3.4 Any Time Modification ack 1.10 Exceptional
Procedures 1.10.1 MS does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers 1.10.2
HLR does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers 1.10.3 GMSC does not
support Long Forwarded-to Numbers 2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy 2.1 Handling of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy 2.1.1
Registration 2.1.2 Erasure 2.1.3 Activation 2.1.4 Deactivation 2.1.5
Interrogation 2.2 Functions and information flows 2.2.1 Call re-routed
from VLR 2.2.2 Call re-routed from HLR 2.3 Information stored in the HLR
2.4 State transition model 2.5 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
2.6 Information stored in the VLR 2.7 Handover 2.8 Cross phase
compatibility 2.8.1 MS, MSC, VLR or HLR only support Phase 1 control of
SS by the subscriber 2.8.2 HLR only supports Phase 1 updating of
subscriber information 2.8.3 VLR only supports Phase 1 updating of
subscriber information 2.8.4 VLR only supports Phase 1 call handling
2.8.5 VLR does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only 2.8.6
GMSC only supports Phase 1 call handling 2.8.7 GMSC does not support
CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only 2.9 Contents of messages 2.9.1
Messages on the B interface (MSC-VLR) 2.9.1.1 Send Info For Incoming
Call ack 2.9.2 Messages on the D interface (VLR-HLR) 2.9.2.1 Insert
Subscriber Data 2.9.2.2 Update Location 2.9.2.3 Provide Roaming Number
2.9.2.4 Restore Data 2.9.3 Messages on the E interface (VMSC-GMSC)
2.9.3.1 Resume Call Handling 2.9.4 Messages on the MSC internal
interface 2.9.4.1 Perform Call Forwarding 2.9.4.2 Perform Call
Forwarding ack 2.10 Support of Long Forwarded-to Numbers 2.10.1 MS does
not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers 2.10.2 HLR does not support Long
Forwarded-to Numbers 2.10.3 GMSC does not support Long Forwarded-to
Numbers 2.10.4 MSC/VLR does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers 3 Call
forwarding on no reply 3.1 Handling of call forwarding on no reply 3.1.1
Registration 3.1.2 Erasure 3.1.3 Activation 3.1.4 Deactivation 3.1.5
Interrogation 3.2 Functions and information flows 3.3 Information stored
in the HLR 3.4 State transition model 3.5 Transfer of information from
HLR to VLR 3.6 Information stored in the VLR 3.7 Handover 3.8 Cross
phase compatibility 3.8.1 MS, MSC, VLR or HLR only support Phase 1
control of SS by the subscriber 3.8.2 HLR only supports Phase 1 updating
of subscriber information 3.8.3 VLR only supports Phase 1 updating of
subscriber information 3.8.4 VLR only supports Phase 1 call handling
3.8.5 VLR does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only 3.9
Contents of messages 3.10 Support of Long Forwarded-to Numbers 4 Call
forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable 4.1 Handling of call
forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable 4.1.1 Registration 4.1.2
Erasure 4.1.3 Activation 4.1.4 Deactivation 4.1.5 Interrogation 4.2
Functions and information flows 4.2.1 Call re-routed from VLR 4.2.2 Call
re-routed from HLR 4.2.3 Call re-routed from HLR for Pre-Paging 4.3
Information stored in the HLR 4.4 State transition model 4.5 Transfer of
information from HLR to VLR 4.6 Information stored in the VLR 4.7
Handover 4.8 Cross phase compatibility 4.8.1 MS, MSC, VLR or HLR only
support Phase 1 control of SS by the subscriber 4.8.2 HLR only supports
Phase 1 updating of subscriber information 4.8.3 VLR only supports
Phase 1 updating of subscriber information 4.8.4 GMSC only supports
Phase 1 call handling 4.8.5 VLR only supports Phase 1 call handling
4.8.6 VLR does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only 4.8.7
GMSC does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only 4.9 Contents
of messages 4.10 Support of Long Forwarded-to Numbers Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document defines the stage 2 of the Call Forwarding (CF)
supplementary services for the 3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

0 Scope
=======

The present document gives the stage 2 description of the call
forwarding supplementary services.

The group of supplementary services call offering supplementary services
is divided into 4 different supplementary services:

\- Call forwarding unconditional (CFU) (clause 1);

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy (CFB) (clause 2);

\- Call forwarding on no reply (CFNRy) (clause 3);

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable (CFNRc) (clause
4).

0.1 References
--------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Call Forwarding (CF) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of Supplementary
Services\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 23.015: \"Technical realisation of Operator Determined
Barring (ODB)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network
Enhanced Logic (CAMEL); Service description, Stage 1\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 23.018: \"Basic Call Handling; Technical ealization\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 23.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network
Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) Phase 3 -- Stage 2\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 23.079: \"Support of Optional Routeing (SOR); Technical
realization\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 23.093: \"Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) ;
Stage2\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) Supplementary Service; Stage
2\".

0.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in
3G TR 21.905 apply.

0.3 The forwarded-to number
---------------------------

As indicated in 3GPP TS 22.082 the forwarded-to numbers are stored in
the international format.

If according to 3GPP TS 22.082 the served subscriber is provided with a
Translation Information Flag (TIF-CSI) then the HPLMN shall treat the
forwarded-to number transparently at the time of registration, i.e. not
perform any checks or translations. In this case the forwarded-to number
shall be stored in the format as it was received from the MS.

Therefore, if transferred, the forwarded-to number is transferred from
the HLR to other network entities and stored in the VLR always in the
format as stored in the HLR..

0.4 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

For the following supplementary services, a number of changes exist
between the present document and the Phase 1 specification:

\- Call forwarding unconditional;

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy;

\- Call forwarding on no reply;

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable.

The main body of the present document assumes that all network entities
comply with this version of the service. In each case an additional
clause (clause x.6) defines the additional requirements for when one or
more network entities or the MS complies with the Phase 1 specifications
for the supplementary service procedures.

0.5 Support of Long Forwarded-to Numbers
----------------------------------------

For the following supplementary services, it shall be possible to
register a long forwarded-to number which was not possible in previous
versions of the services:

\- Call forwarding unconditional;

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy;

\- Call forwarding on no reply;

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable.

The main body of the present document assumes that all network entities
comply with this version of the service. In each case an additional
clause (clause x.10) defines the additional requirements when one or
more network entities and/or the mobile station does not support Long
Forwarded-to Numbers.

The functionality specified in this document does not imply any
constraint on the length of a forwarded to number, except where such a
constraint is explicitly stated.

0.6 Data stored in the HLR for all call forwarding services
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following data are stored in the HLR in common for all call
forwarding services:

\- The \"notification to CSE flag\". This flag applies for all call
forwarding services. When the data for any Call Forwarding are changed,
the HLR checks this flag. If the flag is set, the change is reported to
the gsmSCF(s) defined by the gsmSCF address list. See 3GPP TS 23.078.

\- The \"gsmSCF address list\", which is a list of gsmSCF addresses to
which Notification on Change of Subscriber Data is to be sent. This list
applies to all call forwarding services. See 3GPP TS 23.078.

1 Call forwarding unconditional (CFU)
=====================================

1.1 Handling of call forwarding unconditional
---------------------------------------------

### 1.1.1 Registration

At the beginning of registration subscription to the basic service,
provision of the supplementary service and sufficiency of registration
information has to be checked (see figure 1.2).

The following information has to be registered in the network:

1\) the forwarded-to number (possibly including a sub-address);

2\) information as to whether all calls or all calls of a specific basic
service group should be forwarded.

**The basic service group code**

If the registration request received by the HLR does not contain any
basic service group code, the registration shall be performed for all
subscribed basic service groups for which CFU is provided, see figure
1.2.

**The forwarded-to number**

If the forwarded-to number is a number in the HPLMN country, it may be
entered by the served mobile subscriber in three different formats,
independent of his actual location, according to the schemes:

1\) national (significant) number;

2\) (trunk) prefix plus national (significant) number;

3\) international prefix, country code, national (significant) number.

The received number may have to be converted to an international number
before further processing.

The network may also validate the forwarded-to number before accepting
the call forwarding registration request.

If a served mobile subscriber is provided with the Translation
Information Flag (TIF-CSI) as part of the CAMEL subscriber data (refer
to TS 23.078), the network shall accept and store the forwarded-to
number transparently at the time of registration. In this case the
network shall neither convert nor validate the received number.
Therefore the forwarded-to number may not comply with the schemes
indicated above.

For further details related to the handling of the forwarded-to number
refer to figure 1.2.

**Supplementary Service interaction**

Possible interaction situations between CFU and other call forwarding
and barring supplementary services must then be checked. This is
described in figure 1.2. Also see technical specifications 3GPP TS
22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.082. For interaction between CFU and other
supplementary services (ie not call barring or call forwarding
services), the reader is referred to the respective technical
specification for those supplementary services.

**Interaction with CAMEL Phase 2 or higher**

Possible interaction between CFU and CAMEL Phase 2 or higher is
described in figure 1.2. If CAMEL Phase 2 or higher is not supported in
the HLR, processing continues from the \"No\" exit of the test
\"Result=Pass\".

**Notifications to the subscriber**

When the mobile subscriber registers CFU, the network shall attempt to
register and activate the service. The network will return notification
of acceptance of the request. This notification will include the
forwarded-to number and possibly the basic service group code to which
CFU is registered.

If the system cannot accept a registration request, the network sends a
notification that CFU registration was not successful to the served
mobile subscriber.

The information flow for registration of CFU is shown in figure 1.1.

MS MSC VLR HLR

───── ───── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Register CFU │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Register CFU│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │Register CFU│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFU1│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 1.1: Registration of call forwarding unconditional

Figure 1.2: CFU1 Call forwarding unconditional registration process

### 1.1.2 Erasure

A previous registration can be erased in either of the following three
ways:

\- the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration (to a
basic service group) with an appropriate control procedure;

\- the subscriber can register information for CFU (to a basic service
group), thus causing previous registrations of CFU to be overridden (in
the network this shall be handled as an erasure immediately followed by
a registration);

\- all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the
supplementary service (administrative handling).

**The basic service group code**

If the erasure request received by the HLR does not contain any basic
service group code, the erasure request applies for all basic service
groups for which CFU is registered. See figure 1.4.

**Supplementary Service interaction**

Possible interaction situations between CFU and other supplementary
services must then be checked. This is shown in figure 1.4. Also see
technical specifications 3GPP TS 22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.082. For
interaction between CFU and other supplementary services (ie not call
barring or call forwarding services), the reader is referred to the
respective technical specification for those supplementary services.

**Notifications to the subscriber**

When the mobile subscriber erases CFU, the network shall attempt to
erase (and thus deactivate) the service. The network shall send an
indication of acceptance or rejection of the erasure request to the
served mobile station.

The information flow for erasure of CFU is shown in figure 1.3.

MS MSC VLR HLR

───── ───── ───── ─────

│ │ Erase CFU │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Erase CFU │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Erase CFU │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFU2│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │

│ │Release complete│ │ Acknowledge│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 1.3: Erasure of call forwarding unconditional

Figure 1.4: CFU2 Call forwarding unconditional erasure process

### 1.1.3 Activation

The network initially checks subscription to the basic service and
registration status of the supplementary service, see figure 1.6.

Possible interaction situations between CFU and other supplementary
services must then be checked. The SDL diagrams in figure 1.6 shows the
function to be performed in the HLR in order to deal with the
interactions between CFU and the call restriction and conditional call
forwarding services. Also see 3GPP TS 22.004 \[2\] and 3GPP TS 22.082
\[3\]. For interaction between CFU and other supplementary services (ie
not call barring or call forwarding services), the reader is referred to
the respective technical specification for those supplementary services.

CFU may be active simultaneously with ACR (see 3GPP TS 23.088 \[12\]).
If CFU and ACR are active simultaneously, then the ACR supplementary
service shall take precedence over the CFU supplementary service, i.e. a
call which is terminated for the served subscriber when CLI presentation
is restricted shall be rejected according to the ACR supplementary
service.

**The Basic Service Group Code**

If the activation request received by the HLR doesn\'t contain any basic
service group code, the activation request shall apply to all subscribed
basic service groups against which a CFU forwarded-to number is
registered. If a forwarded-to number is not registered against even a
subset of the required basic service group, the request will be
rejected.

Note that according to 3GPP TS 22.004 \[2\], a request for activation
shall still be accepted although the CFU supplementary service was
already active for all basic service groups.

**Notification to the subscriber**

The network will return notification of acceptance, partial acceptance
or rejection of the request to the mobile station.

The information flow for activation of CFU is shown in figure 1.5.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ──── ──── ─────

│ │ Activate CFU │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Activate CFU │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Activate CFU │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFU3│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 1.5: Activation of call forwarding unconditional

Figure 1.6: CFU3 Call forwarding unconditional activation process

### 1.1.4 Deactivation

The previous activation can be deactivated in either of the following
three ways:

\- the subscriber can specifically deactivate a previous activation (to
a basic service group) with an appropriate control procedure;

\- the subscriber can register information for CFU (to a basic service
group), thus causing previous registrations and activations of CFU to be
overridden (this shall be handled in the same way as an erasure
(implying deactivation) immediately followed by a registration (implying
activation));

\- the service is deactivated as a result of withdrawal of the
supplementary service (administrative handling).

Possible interaction situations between CFU and other supplementary
services must be checked. The SDL diagram in figure 1.8 shows the
function to be performed in the HLR in order to deal with the possible
interactions between CFU and the conditional call forwarding services.

**The Basic Service Group Code**

The CFU deactivation request may specify a basic service group for which
deactivation is required. If the deactivation request received by the
HLR doesn\'t contain any basic service group code, the deactivation
request shall apply to all basic services for which CFU is active, see
figure 1.8.

If the deactivation request received by the HLR contains a basic service
group code, only information related to the specified basic service
group(s) is affected. Note that according to 3GPP TS 22.004, a request
for deactivation shall still be accepted even if the CFU supplementary
service was already deactive for all basic service groups.

The user shall receive a notification of acceptance or rejection of the
CFU deactivation request.

The information flow for deactivation of call forwarding unconditional
is shown in figure 1.7.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ──── ──── ─────

│ │Deactivate CFU │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Deactivate CFU │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Deactivate CFU│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFU4│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │Release complete│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 1.7: Deactivation of call forwarding unconditional

Figure 1.8: CFU4 Call forwarding unconditional deactivation process

### 1.1.5 Interrogation

**Data request**

The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. Interrogation of CFU is
handled by the HLR which returns the required information or error to
the MS, see figure 1.9.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ──── ──── ────

│ │Interrogate CFU │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Interrogate CFU│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │Interrogate CFU│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 1.9: Interrogation of call forwarding unconditional

1.2 Functions and information flows
-----------------------------------

The following Mobile Additional Function has been identified for the
PLMN:

MAF007

Call forwarding unconditional authorizations examination

The ability of a PLMN component to determine the authorizations relating
to CFU.

See figure 1.10.

Location: HLR.

The information flow for call forwarding unconditional is shown in
figure 1.11.

Figure 1.10: MAF007 Call forwarding unconditional authorisations
examination (HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb MSCb LEc ß

─────── ─────── ─────── ───── ───────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Info request │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Info ack │MAF007│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:N │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │
│

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:Y
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notification │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│OR2:Y │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb MSCb HLRc SCcß

───── ─────── ─────── ─── ─── ───

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Info request │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Info ack │MAF007│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:N │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │
│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Information request │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:Y
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Information acknowledge │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

│ │ Notification │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│OR2:Y │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
OR1: Forwarding requested\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 1.11: Information flow for call forwarding unconditional

1.3 Information stored in the HLR
---------------------------------

The following logical states are applicable for CFU\
(refer to 3GPP TS 23.011 for an explanation of the notation):

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ----------------------- -------------------------
  **Provisioning State**   **Registration State**   **Activation State**    **HLR Induction State**
  (Not Provisioned,        Not Registered,          Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Not Registered,          Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Active and Quiescent,   Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Active and Operative,   Not Induced)
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ----------------------- -------------------------

The registration and activation state may be different for each
applicable elementary basic service group.

The provisioning state shall be on a per subscriber basis, and hence the
same for all basic service groups.

The HLR shall store:

\- the state of CFU (which shall be one of the valid states listed
above) for each applicable elementary basic service group;

\- the subscription option \"notification to the calling party\" on a
per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- no notification;

\- notification.

\- the subscription option \"MSISDN of the served subscriber can be
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber\" on a per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- presentation restricted;

\- presentation allowed.

\- the registration parameter \"forwarded-to number\" (possibly
including a forwarded-to sub-address) for each applicable elementary
basic service group.

\- the default forwarded-to number (containing less than 16 digits) for
each applicable elementary basic service group.

Note that the value \"Active and Quiescent\" of the activation state is
required in case of interaction with Operator Determined Barring (see
3GPP TS 23.015).

1.4 State transition model
--------------------------

The following figure shows the successful cases of transition between
the applicable logical states of CFU. The state changes are either
caused by actions of the service provider, the mobile user or the
network.

Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do
not cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not
cause a state change. Hence, they are not shown in the diagram.

The diagram only shows operations on an elementary basic service group.

Figure 1.12: State transition model for CFU

1.5 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
-------------------------------------------

If the provisioning state for CFU is \"Provisioned\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR information
about the logical state of CFU for all relevant elementary basic service
groups.

If the logical state of CFU is changed while a subscriber is registered
on a VLR then for the affected basic service groups, the HLR shall
inform the VLR of the new logical state of CFU.

1.6 Information stored in the VLR
---------------------------------

For CFU the VLR shall store the service state information received from
the HLR for all relevant elementary basic service groups.

1.7 Handover
------------

Handover will have no impact on the control procedure and the operation
of the service.

1.8 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 1.8.1 MS, MSC, VLR or HLR only support Phase 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In response to a CFU interrogation request, if the MS or any network
element involved is of Phase 1, only information concerning basic
service groups for which the activation state has the value \"Active and
Operative\" will be returned. This means, for example, that the
subscriber will not be aware that the forwarded to number is registered
if CFU is deactivated. A subaddress (if registered) will not be included
in the response.

Note that if any network element involved is of Phase 1, CFU
Registration requests which use a subaddress and all CFU Activation and
Deactivation requests will be rejected, as these are not specified in
Phase 1.

### 1.8.2 HLR only supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information

The VLR shall ignore the subscription option \"notification to the
calling party\" and the registration parameter \"forwarded to number\"
when received from a Phase 1 HLR.

If the VLR receives the SS-Status parameter from a Phase 1 HLR it shall
act if it has received the SS-Status parameter with the values shown in
the following:

1\) Activated =\> A bit = 1, Q bit = 0;

2\) Deactivated =\> A bit = 0, Q bit = 0 or 1

### 1.8.3 VLR only supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information

When passing CFU information to a Phase 1 VLR, the HLR shall send the
service state information in a form which the VLR can accept, based on
the logical state held in the HLR, as follows:

1\) (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> Erased, Deactivated;

2\) (Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Deactivated;

3\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Activated;

4\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Quiescent, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Deactivated.

The HLR shall not pass a subaddress to a Phase 1 VLR.

### 1.8.4 GMSC only supports Phase 1 call handling

When a call is forwarded unconditionally, the HLR shall not pass the
subaddress to a Phase 1 GMSC. Calls shall be forwarded without the
subaddress.

### 1.8.5 GMSC does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only

If the activation state of CFU is \"Active and Operative\" and if the
forwarded-to number is registered in a format other than international
and if the GMSC does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only,
then when a request for routeing information for a mobile terminated
call is received in the HLR, CFU shall not be invoked, i.e. the mobile
terminated call establishment will be continued towards the served
mobile subscriber.

1.9 Contents of Messages
------------------------

### 1.9.1 Messages on the C interface (MSC-HLR)

#### 1.9.1.1 Send Routing Info

This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018.

Send Routing Info contains the following IE\
specific to Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the GMSC supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 1.9.1.2 Send Routing Info ack

This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018.

Send Routing Info ack contains the following amendment to the
Forwarded-\
to number IE and an additional IE specific to Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Forwarded-to number        C          E.164 number of the C subscriber. Shall be present if the HLR has determined that the call is to be forwarded and at least one of the HLR and GMSC does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  Long forwarded-to number   C          Number of the C subscriber. Shall be present if the HLR has determined that the call is to be forwarded and Long Forwarded-to Numbers are supported by the HLR and the GMSC; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 1.9.2 Messages on the Um, B and D interfaces (MS -- network)

#### 1.9.2.1 RegisterSS

This message corresponds to the MAP\_REGISTER\_SS service\
specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.

  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the MS supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 1.9.2.2 ActivateSS

This message corresponds to the MAP\_ACTIVATE\_SS service\
specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.

  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the MS supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 1.9.2.3 InterrogateSS

This message corresponds to the MAP\_INTERROGATE\_SS service\
specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.

  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the MS supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 1.9.3 Information flows on the J interface (HLR -- gsmSCF)

#### 1.9.3.1 Any Time Subscription Interrogation

This IF is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078.

Any Time Subscription Interrogation contains\
the following IE specific to Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the gsmSCF supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 1.9.3.2 Any Time Subscription Interrogation ack

This IF is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078.

The Call forwarding SS data IE within the Any Time Subscription
Interrogation ack IF contains the following amendment to the
Forwarded-to number IE and an additional IE specific to Long
Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Forwarded-to number        C          Shall be present if at least one of the HLR and the gsmSCF does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  Long forwarded-to number   C          Shall be present if the HLR and the gsmSCF support Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 1.9.3.3 Any Time Modification

This IF is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078.

Any Time Modification contains the following IE specific to Long
Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the gsmSCF supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 1.9.3.4 Any Time Modification ack

This IF is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078.

The Call forwarding SS data IE within the Any Time Modification ack IF
contains the following amendment to the Forwarded-to number IE and an
additional IE specific to Long Forwarded-to Numbers.

  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Forwarded-to number        C          Shall be present if at least one of the HLR and the gsmSCF does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  Long forwarded-to number   C          Shall be present if the HLR and the gsmSCF support Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.10 Exceptional Procedures
---------------------------

### 1.10.1 MS does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers

The MS shall indicate whether it supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers in
the RegisterSS, ActivateSS and InterrogateSS messages.

If the MS does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers, and a long
forwarded-to number is registered, the acknowledgement message shall not
contain a forwarded-to number.

### 1.10.2 HLR does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers

The HLR shall not allow a subscriber to register a long forwarded-to
number.

### 1.10.3 GMSC does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers

The HLR can determine from the Send Routing Info message whether the
GMSC supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers.

If the GMSC does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers and the HLR
identifies that CFU should be invoked, then:

\- If the registered forwarded-to number contains a maximum of 15 digits
then the HLR shall populate the Forwarded‑to number parameter in the
Send Routing Info ack message with the registered forwarded-to number.

\- If the registered forwarded-to number contains more than 15 digits
then

\- If a default forwarded-to number (containing a maximum of 15 digits)
is stored in the HLR, the HLR shall populate the Forwarded-to number
parameter in the Send Routing Info ack message with the default
forwarded-to number

\- Otherwise, the HLR shall instruct the GMSC to release the call.

2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
===========================================

2.1 Handling of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
---------------------------------------------------------

### 2.1.1 Registration

The same rules apply for the registration of Call Forwarding on Mobile
Subscriber Busy as were described for Call Forwarding Unconditional in
clause 1.1.1 above, with the exception of the checking of interaction
with other supplementary services. Basic registration of information is
illustrated in figure 2.2.

**Supplementary Service Interaction**

Possible interaction situations between CFB and other supplementary
services must then be checked. This is described in figure 2.2. Also see
3GPP TS 22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.082. For interaction between CFB and other
supplementary services (ie not call barring or call forwarding
services), the reader is referred to the respective technical
specification for those supplementary services.

**Interaction with CAMEL Phase 2 or higher**

Possible interaction between CFB and CAMEL Phase 2 or higher is
described in figure 2.2. If CAMEL Phase 2 or higher is not supported in
the HLR, processing continues from the \"No\" exit of the test
\"Result=Pass\".

The information flow for registration of CFB is shown in figure 2.1.

MS MSC VLR HLR

───── ───── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Register CFB │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Register CFB│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │Register CFB│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFB1│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 2.1: Registration of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

Figure 2.2: CFB1 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy registration
process

### 2.1.2 Erasure

The same rules apply for the erasure of CFB as were described for CFU in
clause 1.1.2 above. However, no checks for interaction with other
supplementary services are required for erasure of CFB, see figure 2.4.

The information flow for registration of CFB is shown in figure 2.3.

MS MSC VLR HLR

───── ───── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Erase CFB │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Erase CFB │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Erase CFB │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFB2│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 2.3: Erasure of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

Figure 2.4: CFB2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy erasure
process

### 2.1.3 Activation

The same rules apply for the activation of CFB as were described for CFU
in clause 1.1.3 above, with the exception of the checking of interaction
with other supplementary services. Basic activation of CFNRc is
illustrated in figure 2.6.

**Supplementary Service Interaction**

Possible interaction situations between CFB and other supplementary
services must then be checked. This is described in figure 2.6. Also see
3GPP TS 22.004 \[2\] and 3GPP TS 22.082 \[3\]. For interaction between
CFB and other supplementary services (ie not call barring or call
forwarding services), the reader is referred to the respective technical
specification for those supplementary services.

CFB may be active simultaneously with ACR (see 3GPP TS 23.088 \[12\]).
If CFB and ACR are active simultaneously, then the ACR supplementary
service shall take precedence over the CFB service, i.e. a call which is
terminated for the served subscriber when CLI presentation is restricted
shall be rejected according to the ACR supplementary service.

The information flow for activation of call forwarding on MS busy is
shown in figure 2.5.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ──── ──── ─────

│ │ Activate CFB │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Activate CFB │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Activate CFB │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFB3│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │Release complete│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 2.5: Activation of call forwarding on MS busy

Figure 2.6: CFB3 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy activation
process

### 2.1.4 Deactivation

The same rules apply for the deactivation of CFB as were described for
CFU in clause 1.1.4 above, see figure 2.8.

The information flow for deactivation of call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy is shown in figure 2.7.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ──── ──── ─────

│ │Deactivate CFB │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Deactivate CFB │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Deactivate CFB│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFB4│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 2.7: Deactivation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

Figure 2.8: CFB4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy deactivation
process

### 2.1.5 Interrogation

**Data request**

The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. Interrogation of CFB is
handled by the VLR which returns the required information or error to
the MS, see figure 2.9.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ──── ──── ────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Interrogate CFB │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Interrogate CFB│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 2.9: Interrogation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

2.2 Functions and information flows
-----------------------------------

### 2.2.1 Call re-routed from VLR

The following Mobile Additional Function has been identified for the
PLMN:

MAF008

Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy authorizations examination

The ability of a PLMN component to determine the authorizations relating
to call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy. See figure 2.10.

Location: VLR.

The information flows for forwarding to fixed terminal and to mobile
station are shown in figures 2.11 & 2.12 and 2.13 & 2.14 respectively.

### 2.2.2 Call re-routed from HLR

The following Mobile Additional Function has been identified for the
PLMN:

MAF008

Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy authorizations examination

The ability of a PLMN component to determine the authorizations relating
to call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy. See figure 2.10.

Location: HLR.

The information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy with
busy state as a result of CCBS blocking is shown in figure 2.14a.

Figure 2.10: MAF008 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
authorisations examination (VLR and HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb LEc

──── ───── ───── ─────── ────── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info request │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │NDUB │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Busy subscriber │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (NDUB) │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF008│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:N │ Impossible call│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ completion │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Release │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y │Connect to fol- │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │lowing address │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Notif │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │OR2:Y│\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │OR3:Y│ │ │ │ │

│ │Notification│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: NDUB: Network Determined User Busy\
info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to forwarding subscriber required\
OR3: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 2.11: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy\
(to fixed terminal) (NDUB)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb LEc

──── ───── ───── ─────── ────── ────── ────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info request │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Set-up │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │UDUB │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ UDUB │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Busy subscriber │ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (UDUB) │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF008│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:N │Impossible call │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ completion │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Release │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y │Connect to fol- │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │lowing address │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │

│ │Notification│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: UDUB: User Determined User Busy\
info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 2.12: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy\
(to fixed terminal) (UDUB)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb HLRc MSCc

──── ──── ──── ─────── ────── ───── ───── ────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info request │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │NDUB │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Busy subscriber │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF008│ (NDUB) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:N │Impossible call │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ completion │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y │Connect to fol- │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ lowing address │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Information req │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Information ack │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Notif│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │OR2:Y│\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │OR3:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: NDUB: Network Determined User Busy\
info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to forwarding subscriber required\
OR3: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 2.13: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy\
(to mobile station) (NDUB)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb HLRc MSCc

──── ──── ──── ─────── ────── ───── ──── ────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info request │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Set-up│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │UDUB│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ UDUB │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Busy subscriber│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF008│ (UDUB) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:N │Impossible call│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ completion │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y │Connect to fol-│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │lowing address │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Information req │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Information ack │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: UDUB: User Determined User Busy\
info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 2.14: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy\
(to mobile station) (UDUB)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb MSCb LEc ß

─────────────────────────────────

││││││││││

││Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

││\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>││Info request │ │ │ │ │ │

││││\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

││││││││││

││││Info ack │MAF008│ │ │ │ │

││││\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

││││││││││

││││Set-up │ │ │ │ ││

│││OR1:N
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

││││││││││

││││Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│││OR1:Y
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

││││││││││

││Notification │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

││\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│OR2:Y │
││││││

││││││││││

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb MSCb HLRc SCcß

────────────────────────────

││││││││││││

││Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

││\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Info request │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

││││\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

││││││││││││

││││Info ack │MAF008│ │ │ │ │ │ │

││││\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

││││││││││││

││││Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│││OR1:N
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

││││││││││││

││││Information request │ │ │ │ │ │

│││OR1:Y
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>││││

││││││││││││

││││Information acknowledge │ │ │ │ │ │

││││\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │

││││││││││││

││││Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

││││\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

││Notification │ │ ││││││││

││\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│OR2:Y │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

││││││││││││

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
OR1: Forwarding requested\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 2.14a: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy with busy state as a result of CCBS blocking (see 3GPP TS 23.093
\[11\] clause 11.2.2)

2.3 Information stored in the HLR
---------------------------------

The following logical states are applicable for CFB\
(refer to 3GPP TS 23.011 for an explanation of the notation):

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ----------------------- -------------------------
  **Provisioning State**   **Registration State**   **Activation State**    **HLR Induction State**
  (Not Provisioned,        Not Registered,          Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Not Registered,          Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Active and Quiescent,   Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Active and Operative,   Not Induced)
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ----------------------- -------------------------

The registration and activation state may be different for each
applicable elementary basic service group.

The provisioning state shall be on a per subscriber basis, and hence the
same for all basic service groups.

The HLR shall store:

\- the state of CFB (which shall be one of the valid states listed
above) for each applicable elementary basic service group;

\- the subscription option \"notification to the calling party\" on a
per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- no notification;

\- notification.

\- the subscription option \"notification to the forwarding party\" on a
per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- no notification;

\- notification.

the subscription option \" MSISDN of the served subscriber can be
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber\" on a per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- presentation restricted;

\- presentation allowed.

\- the registration parameter \"forwarded-to number\" (possibly
including a forwarded-to sub-address) for each applicable elementary
basic service group.

\- the default forwarded-to number (containing less than 16 digits) for
each applicable elementary basic service group.

2.4 State transition model
--------------------------

The following figure shows the successful cases of transition between
the applicable logical states of CFB. The state changes are either
caused by actions of the service provider, the mobile user or the
network.

Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do
not cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not
cause a state change. Hence, they are not shown in the diagram. The
diagram only shows operations on an elementary basic service group.

Figure 2.15: State transition model for CFB

2.5 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
-------------------------------------------

If the provisioning state for CFB is \"Provisioned\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR information
about the logical state of CFB for all relevant elementary basic service
groups.

If the registration state for CFB is \"Registered\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR the
registration parameter \"forwarded-to number\" for all relevant
elementary basic service groups and information about the subscription
options \"notification to the calling party\", \"notification to the
forwarding party\" and \"MSISDN of the served subscriber can be
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber\".

If the logical state or the registration parameter \"forwarded-to
number\" of CFB is changed while a subscriber is registered on a VLR
then for the affected basic service groups, the HLR shall inform the VLR
respectively of the new logical state or the new registration parameter
of CFB.

If information about the subscription options \"notification to the
calling party\" and \"notification to the forwarding party\" and
\"MSISDN of the served subscriber can be presented to the forwarded-to
subscriber\" of CFB is changed while a subscriber is registered on a VLR
and the registration state of CFB is \"Registered\" then the HLR shall
inform the VLR of the new information about the subscription options of
CFB.

2.6 Information stored in the VLR
---------------------------------

For CFB the VLR shall store the service state information, the
registration parameter \"forward-to number\" and the subscription
options received from the HLR.

2.7 Handover
------------

Handover will have no impact on the control procedure and the operation
of the service.

2.8 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 2.8.1 MS, MSC, VLR or HLR only support Phase 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In response to a CFB interrogation request, if the MS or any network
element involved is of Phase 1, only information concerning basic
service groups for which the activation state has the value \"Active and
Operative\" will be returned. This means that the subscriber will not be
aware that the forwarded to number is registered if CFB is deactivated
or active (quiescent). A subaddress (if registered) will not be
included.

Note that if any network element involved is of Phase 1, CFB
Registration requests which use a subaddress and all CFB Activation and
Deactivation requests will be rejected, as these are not specified in
Phase 1.

### 2.8.2 HLR only supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information

If the VLR receives the SS-Status parameter from a Phase 1 HLR it shall
act if it has received the SS-Status parameter with the values shown in
the following:

1\) Registered, Activated =\> P bit =1, R bit = 1, A bit = 1, Q bit = 0;

2\) Registered, Deactivated =\> P bit =1, R bit = 1, A bit = 0, Q bit =
0 or 1;

3\) Erased =\> P bit =1, R bit = 0, A bit = 0, Q bit = 0 or 1.

### 2.8.3 VLR only supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information

When passing CFB information to a Phase 1 VLR, the HLR shall send the
service state information in a form which the VLR can accept, based on
the logical state held in the HLR, as follows:

1\) (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> Erased, Deactivated;

2\) (Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Deactivated;

3\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Activated;

4\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Quiescent, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Deactivated.

The HLR shall not pass a subaddress to a Phase 1 VLR.

### 2.8.4 VLR only supports Phase 1 call handling

When a call is forwarded on busy, as the HLR does not pass the
subaddress to the VLR, calls shall be forwarded without the subaddress.

### 2.8.5 VLR does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only

When passing CFB information to a VLR not supporting CAMEL or supporting
CAMEL Phase 1 only, the HLR shall send the registration parameter
\"forwarded-to number\" only if it is registered in a format which the
VLR can accept, i.e. international format.

If the registration state for CFB is \"Registered\" and the forwarded-to
number is registered in a format other than international, then when
updating a VLR not supporting CAMEL or supporting CAMEL Phase 1 only the
HLR shall modify the service state information of CFB as follows.

1\) (Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

2\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

3\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Quiescent, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

According to the definitions in clause 2.5 no forwarded-to number will
be passed to the VLR in these cases. The modification of the service
state information sent to the VLR shall have no impact on the service
state information stored in the HLR.

If the VLR supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information only, a
further translation of the service state information as defined in
clause 2.8.3 shall be performed by the HLR.

### 2.8.6 GMSC only supports Phase 1 call handling

When a call is forwarded on busy, the HLR shall not pass the subaddress
to a Phase 1 GMSC. Calls shall be forwarded without the subaddress.

### 2.8.7 GMSC does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only

If the activation state of CFB is \"Active and Operative\" and if the
forwarded-to number is registered in a format other than international
and if the GMSC does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only,
then when a request for routeing information for a mobile terminated
call is received in the HLR, CFB shall not be invoked. The HLR shall
return a busy subscriber error.

2.9 Contents of messages
------------------------

The same additions apply for CFB as for CFU, see clause 1.9. The
following additions are specific to CFB.

### 2.9.1 Messages on the B interface (MSC-VLR)

#### 2.9.1.1 Send Info For Incoming Call ack

This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018.

Send Info For Incoming Call ack contains the following amendmentto the
Forwarded-to number IE,\
specific to Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Forwarded-to number        M          Number of the C subscriber.
  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------

### 2.9.2 Messages on the D interface (VLR-HLR)

#### 2.9.2.1 Insert Subscriber Data

This message corresponds to the MAP-INSERT-SUBSCRIBER-DATA service
specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.

Insert Subscriber Data contains the following IE\
specificto Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long forwarded-to number   C          Shall be present if the subscriber has a long forwarded-to number registered; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 2.9.2.2 Update Location

This message corresponds to theMAP\_UPDATE\_LOCATION service specified
in 3GPP TS 29.002.

Update Location contains the following IE specific\
to Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the VLR supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 2.9.2.3 Provide Roaming Number

This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018.

Provide Roaming Number contains the following IE specific\
to Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the GMSC and the HLR both support Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 2.9.2.4 Restore Data

This message corresponds to the MAP\_RESTORE\_DATA service specified in
3G TS 29.002.

Restore Data contains the following IE specific to Long Forwarded-to
Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Long FTN supported         C          Shall be present if the VLR supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 2.9.3 Messages on the E interface (VMSC-GMSC)

#### 2.9.3.1 Resume Call Handling

This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.079.

Resume Call Handling contains the following amendment to the
Forwarded-to number IE and an additional IE specific to Long
Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Forwarded-to number        C          E.164 number of the C subscriber. Shall be present if the VMSC does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  Long forwarded-to number   C          Number of the C subscriber. Shall be present if the VMSC supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers; otherwise shall be absent.
  -------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 2.9.4 Messages on the MSC internal interface

#### 2.9.4.1 Perform Call Forwarding

This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018.

Perform Call Forwarding contains the following amendment to the
Forwarded-to number IE specific to Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description
  Forwarded-to number        M          Number of the C subscriber.
  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------

#### 2.9.4.2 Perform Call Forwarding ack

This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018.

Perform Call Forwarding ack contains the following amendment to the
Forwarded-to number IE specific to Long Forwarded-to Numbers:

  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Information element name   Required   Description

  Forwarded-to number        M          Number of the C subscriber.\
                                        NOTE: This number may be different from the Forwarded-to number received in the Perform Call Forwarding, as a result of CAMEL handling.
  -------------------------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2.10 Support of Long Forwarded-to Numbers
-----------------------------------------

### 2.10.1 MS does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers

The handling for CFB is the same as that for CFU, see clause 1.10.1.

### 2.10.2 HLR does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers

The handling for CFB is the same as that for CFU, see clause 1.10.2.

### 2.10.3 GMSC does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers

The MSC/VLR can determine from the PRN whether the GMSC supports Long
Forwarded-to Numbers. If the GMSC does not support Long Forwarded-to
Numbers and a long forwarded-to number is registered for CFB, then on
invocation of CFB, ORLCF shall not be invoked.

### 2.10.4 MSC/VLR does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers

The handling for CFB in the HLR is the same as that for CFU, see clause
1.10.3.

The VLR shall indicate whether it supports Long Forwarded-to Numbers in
the Update Location and Restore Data messages to the HLR. If the VLR
does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers and a Long Forwarded-to
Number is registered for CFB, then:

\- If a default forwarded-to number (containing a maximum of 15 digits)
is stored in the HLR, the HLR shall send to the VLR an Insert Subscriber
Data message containing the default forwarded-to number in the
Forwarded-to number parameter.

\- Otherwise, the HLR shall send the VLR the following service state
information:

\- (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

For an MT call, if the following conditions are met then the HLR shall
include the Forwarding interrogation required parameter in the first
Send Routing Info ack:

\- The GMSC supports Optimal Routeing and Long Forwarded-to Numbers, and

\- The MSC/VLR does not support Long Forwarded-to Numbers,and

\- CFB is active and operative, and

\- A long forwarded-to number is registered for CFB.

According to the rules of Optimal Routeing, when the GMSC receives a
Resume Call Handling message from the MSC/VLR, it shall send a second
Send Routing Info message to the HLR allowing the HLR to insert the
correct long forwarded-to number.

3 Call forwarding on no reply
=============================

3.1 Handling of call forwarding on no reply
-------------------------------------------

### 3.1.1 Registration

The same rules apply for the registration of Call Forwarding on No Reply
as were described for Call Forwarding Unconditional in clause 1.1.1
above, with the exceptions described below. Basic registration of
information is illustrated in figure 3.2.

##### The No Reply Condition Timer {#the-no-reply-condition-timer .H6}

If a value for the no reply condition timer is not included in the
registration request received from the MS, then the previous value set
by the mobile user or the network operator applies.

##### Supplementary Service Interaction {#supplementary-service-interaction .H6}

Possible interaction situations between CFNRy and other supplementary
services must then be checked. This is described in figure 3.2. Also see
3GPP TS 22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.082. For interaction between CFNRy and
other supplementary services (ie not call barring or call forwarding
services), the reader is referred to the respective technical
specification for those supplementary services.

##### Interaction with CAMEL Phase 2 or higher {#interaction-with-camel-phase-2-or-higher .H6}

Possible interaction between CFNRy and CAMEL Phase 2 or higher is
described in figure 3.2. If CAMEL Phase 2 or higher is not supported in
the HLR, processing continues from the \"No\" exit of the test
\"Result=Pass\".

The information flow for registration of call forwarding on no reply is
shown in figure 3.1.

MS MSC VLR HLR

──── ──── ──── ───────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Register CFNRy │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Register CFNRy│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │Register CFNRy│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFNRy1│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 3.1: Registration of call forwarding on no reply

Figure 3.2: CFNRy1 Call forwarding on no reply registration process

### 3.1.2 Erasure

The same rules apply for the erasure of Call Forwarding on No Reply as
were described for Call Forwarding Unconditional in clause 1.1.2 above.
However, no checks for interaction with other supplementary services are
required for erasure of CFNRy, see figures 3.3 and 3.4.

MS MSC VLR HLR

──── ──── ───── ───────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Erase CFNRy │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Erase CFNRy │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │Erase CFNRy │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFNRy2│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 3.3: Erasure of call forwarding on no reply

Figure 3.4: CFNRy2 Call forwarding on no reply erasure process

### 3.1.3 Activation

The same rules apply for the activation of Call Forwarding on No Reply
as were described for Call Forwarding Unconditional in clause 1.1.3
above, with the exception of the checking of interaction with other
supplementary services. Basic activation of CFNRy is illustrated in
figure 3.6.

##### Supplementary Service Interaction {#supplementary-service-interaction-1 .H6}

Possible interaction situations between CFNRy and other supplementary
services must then be checked. This is described in figure 3.6. Also see
3GPP TS 22.004 \[2\] and 3GPP TS 22.082 \[3\]. For interaction between
CFNRy and other supplementary services (ie not call barring or call
forwarding services), the reader is referred to the respective technical
specification for those supplementary services.

CFNRy may be active simultaneously with ACR (see 3GPP TS 23.088 \[12\]).
If CFNRy and ACR are active simultaneously, then the ACR supplementary
service shall take precedence over the CFNRy service, i.e. a call which
is terminated for the served subscriber when CLI presentation is
restricted shall be rejected according to the ACR supplementary service.

The information flow for activation of CFNRy is shown in figure 3.5.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ─── ──── ───────

│ │ Activate CFNRy │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Activate CFNRy│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Activate CFNRy│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFNRy3│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │Release complete│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 3.5: Activation of call forwarding on no reply

Figure 3.6: CFNRy3 Call forwarding on no reply activation process

### 3.1.4 Deactivation

The same rules apply for the deactivation of CFNRy as were described for
CFU in clause 1.1.4 above, see figure 3.7 and 3.8.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ─── ─── ───────

│ │Deactivate CFNRy│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Deactivate CFNRy│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │DeactivateCFNRy│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFNRy4│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 3.7: Deactivation of call forwarding on no reply

Figure 3.8: CFNRy4 Call forwarding on no reply deactivation process

### 3.1.5 Interrogation

##### Data request {#data-request .H6}

The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. Interrogation of CFNRy is
handled by the VLR which returns the required information or error to
the MS, see figure 3.9.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ─── ─── ───

│ │Interrogate CFNRy│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Interrogate CFNRy│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 3.9: Interrogation of call forwarding on no reply

3.2 Functions and information flows
-----------------------------------

The following Mobile Additional Function has been identified for the
PLMN:

MAF009

Call forwarding on no reply authorizations examination

The ability of a PLMN component to determine the authorizations relating
to call forwarding on no reply. See figure 3.10.

Location: VLR.

The information flows for forwarding to fixed terminal and to mobile
station are shown in figures 3.11 and 3.12 respectively.

Figure 3.10: MAF009 Call forwarding on no reply authorisations
examination (VLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb LEc

───── ───── ───── ─────── ──────── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF009│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Call conf│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ start │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ timer │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ timer │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │expires│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Impossible│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ call │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │completion│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:N │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Connect to│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ following│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ address │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Notif │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ OR2:Y │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │ OR3:Y │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
conf: confirmation\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to forwarding subscriber required\
OR3: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 3.11: Information flow for call forwarding on no reply\
(to fixed terminal)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb HLRc MSCc

─── ──── ──── ─────── ──────── ──── ──── ────

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF009│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Call conf│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ start │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ timer │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │ timer │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│expires│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │impossible│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ call │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │completion│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:N │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Connect to│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │following │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ address │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Info request │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Notif │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ OR2:Y │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │ OR3:Y │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: no\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
conf: confirmation\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to forwarding subscriber required\
OR3: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 3.12: Information flow for call forwarding on no reply\
(to mobile station)

3.3 Information stored in the HLR
---------------------------------

The following logical states are applicable for CFNRy (refer to 3GPP TS
23.011 for an explanation of the notation):

**Provisioning State Registration State Activation State HLR Induction
State**

(Not Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

(Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

(Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

(Provisioned, Registered, Active and Quiescent, Not Induced)

(Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

The registration and activation state may be different for each
applicable elementary basic service group.

The provisioning state shall be on a per subscriber basis, and hence the
same for all basic service groups.

The HLR shall store:

\- the state of CFNRy (which shall be one of the valid states listed
above) for each applicable elementary basic service group;

\- the subscription option \"notification to the calling party\" on a
per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- no notification;

\- notification.

\- the subscription option \"notification to the forwarding party\" on a
per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- no notification;

\- notification.

\- the subscription option \"MSISDN of the served subscriber can be
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber\" on a per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- presentation restricted;

\- presentation allowed.

\- the registration parameter \"forwarded-to number\" (possibly
including a forwarded-to sub-address) for each applicable elementary
basic service group;

\- the registration parameter \"no reply condition timer\" for each
applicable elementary basic service group.

This parameter may take values in the range 5 - 30 seconds in steps of 5
seconds.

\- the default forwarded-to number (containing less than 16 digits) for
each applicable elementary basic service group.

3.4 State transition model {#state-transition-model-2 .list-paragraph}
--------------------------

The following figure shows the successful cases of transition between
the applicable logical states of CFNRy. The state changes are either
caused by actions of the service provider, the mobile user or the
network.

Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do
not cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not
cause a state change. Hence, they are not shown in the diagram. The
diagram only shows operations on an elementary basic service group.

Figure 3.13: State transition model for CFNRy

3.5 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
-------------------------------------------

If the provisioning state for CFNRy is \"Provisioned\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR information
about the logical state of CFNRy for all relevant elementary basic
service groups.

If the registration state for CFNRy is \"Registered\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR the
registration parameter \"forwarded-to number\" and \"no reply condition
timer\" for all relevant elementary basic service groups and information
about the subscription options \"notification to the calling party\",
\"notification to the forwarding party\" and \"MSISDN of the served
subscriber can be presented to the forwarded-to subscriber\".

If the logical state, the registration parameter \"forwarded-to number\"
or the registration parameter \"no reply condition timer\" of CFNRy is
changed while a subscriber is registered on a VLR then for the affected
basic service groups, the HLR shall inform the VLR respectively of the
new logical state or the new registration parameter of CFNRy.

If information about the subscription options \"notification to the
calling party\" and \"notification to the forwarding party\" and
\"MSISDN of the served subscriber can be presented to the forwarded-to
subscriber\" of CFNRy is changed while a subscriber is registered on a
VLR and the registration state of CFNRy is \"Registered\" then the HLR
shall inform the VLR of the new information about the subscription
options of CFNRy.

3.6 Information stored in the VLR
---------------------------------

For CFNRy the VLR shall store the service state information, the
registration parameter \"forward-to number\", the registration parameter
\"no reply condition timer\" and the subscription options received from
the HLR.

3.7 Handover
------------

Handover will have no impact on the control procedure and the operation
of the service.

3.8 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 3.8.1 MS, MSC, VLR or HLR only support Phase 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In response to a CFNRy interrogation request, if the MS or any network
element involved is of Phase 1, only information concerning basic
service groups for which the activation state has the value \"Active and
Operative\" will be returned. This means that the subscriber will not be
aware that the forwarded to number is registered if CFNRy is deactivated
or active (quiescent). A subaddress (if registered) will not be
included.

Note that if any network element involved is of Phase 1, CFNRy
Registration requests which use a subaddress and all CFNRy Activation
and Deactivation requests will be rejected, as these are not specified
in Phase 1.

### 3.8.2 HLR only supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information

If the VLR receives the SS-Status parameter from a Phase 1 HLR it shall
act if it has received the SS-Status parameter with the values shown in
the following:

1\) Registered, Activated =\> P bit =1, R bit = 1, A bit = 1, Q bit = 0;

2\) Registered, Deactivated =\> P bit =1, R bit = 1, A bit = 0, Q bit =
0 or 1;

3\) Erased =\> P bit =1, R bit = 0, A bit = 0, Q bit = 0 or 1.

### 3.8.3 VLR only supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information {#vlr-only-supports-phase-1-updating-of-subscriber-information-2 .list-paragraph}

When passing CFNRy information to a Phase 1 VLR, the HLR shall send the
service state information in a form which the VLR can accept, based on
the logical state held in the HLR, as follows:

1\) (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> Erased, Deactivated;

2\) (Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Deactivated;

3\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Activated;

4\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Quiescent, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Deactivated.

The HLR shall not pass a subaddress to a Phase 1 VLR.

### 3.8.4 VLR only supports Phase 1 call handling

When a call is forwarded on no reply, as the HLR does not pass the
subaddress to the VLR, calls shall be forwarded without the subaddress.

### 3.8.5 VLR does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only

When passing CFNRy information to a VLR not supporting CAMEL or
supporting CAMEL Phase 1 only, the HLR shall send the registration
parameter \"forwarded-to number\" only if it is registered in a format
which the VLR can accept, i.e. international format.

If the registration state for CFNRy is \"Registered\" and the
forwarded-to number is registered in a format other than international,
then when updating a VLR not supporting CAMEL or supporting CAMEL
Phase 1 only the HLR shall modify the service state information of CFNRy
as follows.

1\) (Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

2\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

3\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Quiescent, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

According to the definitions in clause 3.5 no forwarded-to number will
be passed to the VLR in these cases. The modification of the service
state information sent to the VLR shall have no impact on the service
state information stored in the HLR.

If the VLR supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information only, a
further translation of the service state information as defined in
clause 3.8.3 shall be performed by the HLR.

3.9 Contents of messages
------------------------

The same additions apply for CFNRy as for CFB, see clause 2.9 (additions
to Send Routing Info and Send Routing Info ack are not used in this
case).

3.10 Support of Long Forwarded-to Numbers
-----------------------------------------

The handling for early CFNRc is the same as that for CFU, see clause
1.10.

The handling for late CFNRy is the same as that for CFB, see clause
2.10.

4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
====================================================

4.1 Handling of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.1.1 Registration

The same rules apply for the registration of Call Forwarding on Mobile
Subscriber Not Reachable as were described for Call Forwarding
Unconditional in clause 1.1.1 above, with the exception of the checking
of interaction with other supplementary services. Basic registration of
information is illustrated in figure 4.2.

##### Supplementary Service Interaction {#supplementary-service-interaction-2 .H6}

Possible interaction situations between CFNRc and other supplementary
services must then be checked. This is described in figure 4.2. Also see
3GPP TS 22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.082. For interaction between CFNRc and
other supplementary services (ie not call barring or call forwarding
services), the reader is referred to the respective technical
specification for those supplementary services.

##### Interaction with CAMEL Phase 2 or higher {#interaction-with-camel-phase-2-or-higher-1 .H6}

Possible interaction between CFNRc and CAMEL Phase 2 or higher is
described in figure 4.2. If CAMEL Phase 2 or higher is not supported in
the HLR, processing continues from the \"No\" exit of the test
\"Result=Pass\".

The information flow for registration of call forwarding on mobile
subscriber not reachable is shown in figure 4.1.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ─── ──── ───────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Register CFNRc │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Register CFNRc│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │Register CFNRc│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFNRc1│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 4.1: Registration of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable

Figure 4.2: CFNRc1 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
registration process

### 4.1.2 Erasure

The same rules apply for the erasure of CFNRc as were described for CFU
in clause 1.1.2 above. However, no checks for interaction with other
supplementary services are required for erasure of CFNRc, see figure
4.4.

The information flow for registration of CFNRc is shown in figure 4.3.

MS MSC VLR HLR

───── ───── ───── ───────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Erase CFNRc │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Erase CFNRc│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │Erase CFNRc│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFNRc2│

│ │ │ │ │ │Acknowledge│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │Acknowledge│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 4.3: Erasure of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable

Figure 4.4: CFNRc2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
erasure process

### 4.1.3 Activation

The same rules apply for the activation of CFNRc as were described for
CFU in clause 1.1.3 above, with the exception of the checking of
interaction with other supplementary services. Basic activation of CFNRc
is illustrated in figure 4.6.

##### Supplementary Service Interaction {#supplementary-service-interaction-3 .H6}

Possible interaction situations between CFNRc and other supplementary
services must then be checked. This is described in figure 4.6. Also see
3GPP TS 22.004 \[2\] and 3GPP TS 22.082 \[3\]. For interaction between
CFNRc and other supplementary services (i.e. not call barring or call
forwarding services), the reader is referred to the respective technical
specification for those supplementary services.

CFNRc may be active simultaneously with ACR (see 3GPP TS 23.088 \[12\]).
If CFNRc and ACR are active simultaneously, then the ACR supplementary
service shall take precedence over the CFNRc service, i.e. a call which
is terminated for the served subscriber when CLI presentation is
restricted shall be rejected according to the ACR supplementary service.

The information flow for activation of call forwarding on MS not
reachable is shown in figure 4.5.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ─── ──── ───────

│ │ Activate CFNRc │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Activate CFNRc│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Activate CFNRc│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFNRc3│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │Release complete│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 4.5: Activation of call forwarding on MS not reachable

Figure 4.6: CFNRc3 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
activation process

### 4.1.4 Deactivation

The same rules apply for the deactivation of CFNRc as were described for
CFU in clause 1.1.4 above, see figure 4.8.

The information flow for deactivation of call forwarding on mobile
subscriber not reachable is shown in figure 4.7.

MS MSC VLR HLR

─── ─── ─── ───────

│ │Deactivate CFNRc│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Deactivate CFNRc│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Deactivate CFNRc│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │CFNRc4│

│ │ │ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 4.7: Deactivation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable

Figure 4.8: CFNRc4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
deactivation process

### 4.1.5 Interrogation

##### Data request {#data-request-1 .H6}

The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. Interrogation of CFNRc is
handled by the VLR which returns the required information or error to
the MS, see figure 4.9.

MS MSC VLR HLR

──── ──── ──── ────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Interrogate CFNRc│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Interrogate CFNRc│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Acknowledge │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │Release complete │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ \\Facility │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

Figure 4.9: Interrogation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable

4.2 Functions and information flows
-----------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Call re-routed from VLR

The following Mobile Additional Function has been identified for the
PLMN:

MAF010

Examination of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
authorizations

The ability of a PLMN component to determine the authorizations relating
to call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable in case the mobile
subscriber is not reachable in the VLR, in case of no paging response or
radio congestion. See figure 4.10.

Location: VLR.

The information flows for forwarding to fixed terminal and to mobile
station are shown in figures 4.11 and 4.12 respectively. These flows
represent the case where the mobile subscriber is not reachable in the
VLR, and that this fact was not detected at interrogation from the HLR.
This situation occurs if the MSC requests the VLR to provide information
for a mobile terminating call towards a subscriber who is detached in
the VLR.

Figures 4.13 and 4.14 show the information flows in case of no paging
response.

Figures 4.15 and 4.16 show the information flows in case of radio
congestion.

### 4.2.2 Call re-routed from HLR

The following Mobile Additional Function has been identified for the
PLMN:

[MAF010]{.underline}

Examination of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
authorizations

The ability of a PLMN component to determine the authorizations relating
to call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable in case the mobile
subscriber is deregistered or purged in the HLR or not reachable in the
VLR. See figure 4.10.

Location: HLR.

The information flows for forwarding to fixed terminal and to mobile
station are shown in figures 4.17 and 4.18 respectively. These flows
represent the case where the call is re-routed from the HLR because
information from the VLR indicates that the subscriber cannot be reached
in the VLR. This situation occurs if the VLR detects at roaming number
request time that the subscriber concerned is detached or that there is
no roaming number available.

Figures 4.19 and 4.20 show the information flows for forwarding to fixed
terminal and to mobile station respectively in case where the call is
re-routed by the HLR because the subscriber is deregistered or purged in
the HLR.

Figure 4.10: MAF010 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
authorisations examination (VLR and HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb LEc

───── ───── ───── ─────── ────── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Set-up│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Roam No │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Roam No │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │OR1:N│ │ │

│ │Release│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │OR2:Y│ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
Roam No: roaming number\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.11: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of mobile subscriber not reachable in the VLR (to
fixed terminal) (re-routing by VLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb HLRc MSCc

───── ───── ───── ─────── ────── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info ack│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │OR1:N│ │ │ │ │

│ │Release
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y│ Info req │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │

│ │Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
Roam No: roaming number\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.12: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of mobile subscriber not reachable in the VLR (to
mobile station) (re-routing by VLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb LEc

───── ───── ───── ─────── ───────── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Paging │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ no │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │response│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Impossible│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:N │ call │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ completion│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y │Connect to │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ following │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ address │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │ OR2:Y │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
roam: roaming\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.13: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of no paging response (to fixed terminal)
(re-routing by VLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb HLRc MSCc

──── ──── ──── ─────── ───────── ──── ──── ────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Paging│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ no │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │response│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:N │ Impossible│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ call │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ completion│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │OR1:Y │Connect to │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ following │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ address │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Info req │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │ OR2:Y │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
roam: roaming\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.14: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of no paging response (to mobile station)
(re-routing by VLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb LEc

──── ───── ───── ─────── ─────────── ───── ────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Complete call│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ radio │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │congestion│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Radio │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ congestion │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ OR1:N│ Impossible │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ call │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ completion │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ OR1:Y│ Connect to │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ following │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ address │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │ OR2:Y │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
roam: roaming\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.15: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of radio congestion (to fixed terminal)
(re-routing by VLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb HLRc MSCc

─── ─── ─── ─────── ─────────── ─── ─── ───

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info req │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Complete call│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ radio │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │congestion│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Radio │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ congestion │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ OR1:N│ Impossible │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ call │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ completion │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release│
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ OR1:Y│ Connect to │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ following │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ address │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Info req │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Notification │ OR2:Y │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
roam: roaming\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.16: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of radio congestion (to mobile station)
(re-routing by VLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb LEc

───── ────── ─────── ───── ──────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info request│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roaming No │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Not │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ reachable │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Release │OR1:N│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:Y│ Set-up │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Notification│OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
ack: acknowledge N: No\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.17: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of mobile subscriber not reachable in the VLR (to
fixed terminal) (re-routing by HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb HLRc VLRc MSCc

───── ────── ─────── ───── ────── ───── ─────

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roaming No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Not │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ reachable │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Release │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│OR1:N│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Information request │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │
│OR1:Y│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ Provide │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │roaming No│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Roaming No│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Information acknowledge │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.18: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of mobile subscriber not reachable in the VLR (to
mobile station) (re-routing by HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb LEc

───── ────── ─────── ───── ──────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info request│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Release │OR1:N│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:Y│ Set-up │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Notification│OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
ack: acknowledge N: No\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.19: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of mobile subscriber deregistered or purged (to
fixed terminal) (re-routing by HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb HLRc VLRc MSCc

───── ────── ─────── ───── ────── ───── ─────

│ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Release │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│OR1:N│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Information request │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │
│OR1:Y│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│ Provide │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │roaming No│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Roaming No│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Information acknowledge │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ Set-up │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Notif │OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
notif: notification\
No: number\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.20: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of mobile subscriber deregistered or purged (to
mobile station) (re-routing by HLR)

### 4.2.3 Call re-routed from HLR for Pre-Paging

If the Pre-Paging is performed by the VPLMN, in addition to clause
4.2.2, the following Mobile Additional Function has been identified for
Pre-Paging in the PLMN. In this case, the clause 4.2.1 is not identified
for Pre-Paging in the PLMN:

MAF010

Examination of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
authorizations

The ability of a PLMN component to determine the authorizations relating
to call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable in case of no
paging response or radio congestion for Pre-Paging in the VLR. See
figure 4.10.

Location: HLR.

The information flows for forwarding to fixed terminal and to mobile
station are shown in figures 4.21 and 4.22 respectively. These flows
represent the case where the call is re-routed from the HLR because of
no paging response for Pre-Paging from the MSC

Figures 4.23 and 4.24 show the information flows in case of radio
congestion for Pre-Paging.

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb LEc

────── ────── ─────── ───── ───────── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Paging │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ no │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │response│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:N│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
│ │

│ │ │OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Notification │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
roam: roaming\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.21: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of no paging response for Pre-Paging (to fixed
terminal) (re-routing by HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb HLRC VLRc MSCc

──── ─────── ───── ──── ────────── ──── ──── ──── ──── │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Paging│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ no │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │response│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │MAF│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│010│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:N│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Rel │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:Y│ Info req │ │Provide │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│roam No │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (Note 1) │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Roam │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │No │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Notif │OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
Rel: Release\
roam: roaming\
Notif: Notification\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

NOTE 1: The procedure of the paging would be performed.

Figure 4.22: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of no paging response (to mobile station)
(re-routing by HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb LEc

───── ────── ─────── ───── ─────────── ───── ─────

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ radio │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │congestion│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │MAF010│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:N│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Release│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
│ │

│ │ │OR2:Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Notification │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
roam: roaming\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

Figure 4.23: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of radio congestion for Pre-Paging (to fixed
terminal) (re-routing by HLR)

MSa/TEa GMSC HLRb VLRb MSCb MSb HLRC VLRc MSCc

──── ───── ──── ──── ────────── ──── ──── ──── ─── │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Set-up│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\-\-\-\--\>│ │Info req│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ Provide │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ roam No │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Page MS │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ radio │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │congestion│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ Absent │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │subscriber│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │MAF│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │Info ack│010│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │\<\-\-\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ Rel │ :N│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\--│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │OR1│ Info req │ │Provide │ │ │

│ │ │
:Y│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│roam No │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\-\-\--\>│ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (Note 1) │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │Roam │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │No │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ Info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\<\-\-\--│ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--│
│ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ Set-up │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │
│\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>│
│

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │Notif │OR2│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │\<\-\-\-\--│ :Y│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │

NOTE: info: information Y: Yes\
req: request N: No\
ack: acknowledge\
Rel: Release\
roam: roaming\
Notif: Notification\
OR1: Call to be forwarded\
OR2: Notification to calling subscriber required

NOTE 1: The procedure of the paging would be performed.

Figure 4.24: Information flow for call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable in case of radio congestion (to mobile station)
(re-routing by HLR)

4.3 Information stored in the HLR
---------------------------------

The following logical states are applicable for CFNRc (refer to 3GPP TS
23.011 for an explanation of the notation):

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ----------------------- -------------------------
  **Provisioning State**   **Registration State**   **Activation State**    **HLR Induction State**
  (Not Provisioned,        Not Registered,          Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Not Registered,          Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Not Active,             Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Active and Quiescent,   Not Induced)
  (Provisioned,            Registered,              Active and Operative,   Not Induced)
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ----------------------- -------------------------

The registration and activation state may be different for each
applicable elementary basic service group.

The provisioning state shall be on a per subscriber basis, and hence the
same for all basic service groups.

The HLR shall store:

\- the state of CFNRc (which shall be one of the valid states listed
above) for each applicable elementary basic service group;

\- the subscription option \"notification to the calling party\" on a
per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- no notification;

\- notification.

\- the subscription option \" MSISDN of the served subscriber can be
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber\" on a per subscriber basis;

This subscription option takes one of the following values:

\- presentation restricted;

\- presentation allowed.

\- the registration parameter \"forwarded-to number\" (possibly
including a forwarded-to sub-address) for each applicable elementary
basic service group.

**-** the default forwarded-to number (containing less than 16 digits)
for each applicable elementary basic service group.

4.4 State transition model
--------------------------

The following figure shows the successful cases of transition between
the applicable logical states of CFNRc. The state changes are either
caused by actions of the service provider, the mobile user or the
network.

Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do
not cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not
cause a state change. Hence, they are not shown in the diagram.

The diagram only shows operations on an elementary basic service group.

Figure 4.25: State transition model for CFNRc

4.5 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
-------------------------------------------

If the provisioning state for CFNRc is \"Provisioned\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR information
about the logical state of CFNRc for all relevant elementary basic
service groups.

If the registration state for CFNRc is \"Registered\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR the
registration parameter \"forwarded-to number\" for all relevant
elementary basic service groups and information about the subscription
options \"notification to the calling party\"\" and \"MSISDN of the
served subscriber can be presented to the forwarded-to subscriber\".

If the logical state or the registration parameter \"forwarded-to
number\" of CFNRc is changed while a subscriber is registered on a VLR
then for the affected basic service groups, the HLR shall inform the VLR
respectively of the new logical state or the new registration parameter
of CFNRc.

If information about the subscription option \"notification to the
calling party\" and \"MSISDN of the served subscriber can be presented
to the forwarded-to subscriber\" of CFNRc is changed while a subscriber
is registered on a VLR and the registration state of CFNRc is
\"Registered\" then the HLR shall inform the VLR of the new information
about the subscription option of CFNRc.

4.6 Information stored in the VLR
---------------------------------

For CFNRc the VLR shall store the service state information, the
registration parameter \"forward-to number\" and the subscription
options received from the HLR.

4.7 Handover
------------

Handover will have no impact on the control procedure and the operation
of the service.

4.8 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 4.8.1 MS, MSC, VLR or HLR only support Phase 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In response to a CFNRc interrogation request, if the MS or any network
element involved is of Phase 1, only information concerning basic
service groups for which the activation state has the value \"Active and
Operative\" will be returned. This means that the subscriber will not be
aware that the forwarded to number is registered if CFNRc is deactivated
or active (quiescent). A subaddress (if registered) will not be
included.

Note that if any network element involved is of Phase 1, CFNRc
Registration requests which use a subaddress and all CFNRc Activation
and Deactivation requests will be rejected, as these are not specified
in Phase 1.

### 4.8.2 HLR only supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information

If the VLR receives the SS-Status parameter from a Phase 1 HLR it shall
act if it has received the SS-Status parameter with the values shown in
the following:

1\) Registered, Activated =\> P bit =1, R bit = 1, A bit = 1, Q bit = 0;

2\) Registered, Deactivated =\> P bit =1, R bit = 1, A bit = 0, Q bit =
0 or 1;

3\) Erased =\> P bit =1, R bit = 0, A bit = 0, Q bit = 0 or 1.

### 4.8.3 VLR only supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information

When passing CFNRc information to a Phase 1 VLR, the HLR shall send the
service state information in a form which the VLR can accept, based on
the logical state held in the HLR, as follows:

1\) (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> Erased, Deactivated;

2\) (Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Deactivated;

3\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Activated;

4\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Quiescent, Not Induced)

=\> Registered, Deactivated.

The HLR shall not pass a subaddress to a Phase 1 VLR.

### 4.8.4 GMSC only supports Phase 1 call handling

When a call is forwarded on not reachable at the GMSC, the HLR shall not
pass the subaddress to a Phase 1 GMSC. Calls shall be forwarded without
the subaddress.

### 4.8.5 VLR only supports Phase 1 call handling

When a call is forwarded on not reachable at the VMSC, as the HLR does
not pass the subaddress to the VLR, calls shall be forwarded without the
subaddress.

### 4.8.6 VLR does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only

When passing CFNRc information to a VLR not supporting CAMEL or
supporting CAMEL Phase 1 only, the HLR shall send the registration
parameter \"forwarded-to number\" only if it is registered in a format
which the VLR can accept, i.e. international format.

If the registration state for CFNRc is \"Registered\" and the
forwarded-to number is registered in a format other than international,
then when updating a VLR not supporting CAMEL or supporting CAMEL
Phase 1 only the HLR shall modify the service state information of CFNRc
as follows:

1\) (Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced);

2\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced);

3\) (Provisioned, Registered, Active and Quiescent, Not Induced)

=\> (Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active, Not Induced).

According to the definitions in clause 4.5 no forwarded-to number will
be passed to the VLR in these cases. The modification of the service
state information sent to the VLR shall have no impact on the service
state information stored in the HLR.

If the VLR supports Phase 1 updating of subscriber information only, a
further translation of the service state information as defined in
clause 4.8.3 shall be performed by the HLR.

### 4.8.7 GMSC does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only

If the activation state of CFNRc is \"Active and Operative\" and if the
forwarded-to number is registered in a format other than international
and if the GMSC does not support CAMEL or supports CAMEL Phase 1 only,
then when a request for routeing information for a mobile terminated
call is received in the HLR, CFNRc shall not be invoked in the HLR. The
mobile terminated call establishment shall be continued towards the
MSCb.

NOTE: CFNRc will be handled in the VLRb according to the service state
information for CFNRc stored there.

4.9 Contents of messages
------------------------

The same additions apply for CFNRc as for CFB, see clause 2.9.

4.10 Support of Long Forwarded-to Numbers
-----------------------------------------

The handling for CFNRc is the same as that for CFB, see clause 2.10.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR       \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 03.82                                      Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     23.082               R99         3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#05     23.082      001      R99         3.1.0         Addition of the description related to Pre-Paging in case of \"Absent Subscriber\"
  CN\#07     23.082      003r3    R99         3.2.0         Introduction of \'Notification to CSE flag\' to the call forwarding supplementary service.
  CN\#07     23.082      004r2    R99         3.2.0         Addition of Long Forwarded-to Numbers
  CN\#07     23.082      005      R99         3.2.0         Inclusion of TIF-CSI
  CN\#08     23.082      006      R99         3.3.0         Indication in PRN of support of Long FTNs
  CN\#08     23.082      007r1    R99         3.3.0         Interworking cases for Long Forwarded-to Numbers
  CN\#09     23.082      008r1    R99         3.4.0         SDL refresh
  CN\#10     23.082      009r1    R99         3.5.0         Correction of message between VLR and HLR
  CN\#11     23.082               Rel-4       4.0.0         Release 4 after CN\#11
  CN\#12     23.082      010      Rel-4       4.1.0         Interworking cases for Long Forwarded-to Numbers
  CN\#13     23.082      012      Rel-4       4.2.0         Clarifications on long forwarded-to numbers
  CN\#16     23.082      014      Rel-4       4.3.0         \"Long FTN Supported\" to be transferred from VLR to HLR with Restore Data
  CN\#16     23.082               Rel-5       5.0.0         Release 5 after CN\#16
  CN\#26     23.082               Rel-6       6.0.0         Release 6 after CN\#26
  CT\#36     23.082               Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#37     23.082      0015r1   Rel-7       7.1.0         
  CT\#38     23.082      0016     Rel-7       7.2.0         Information flows for Call Forwarding on Busy handling in HLR
  CT\#42     23.082               Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  CT\#46     \-          \-       Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    \-          \-       Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2011-12    23.082      0017r1   Rel-11      11.0.0        CF interactions with ACR
  CT\#62     23.082      0018r1   Rel-12      12.0.0        Call Forwarding Options
  2015-12    23.082      \-       Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    23.082      \-       Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    23.082      \-       Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    23.082      \-       Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
