Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#advice-of-charge-information-aoci)

[5](#advice-of-charge-information-msc-sdl-diagram)

[6](#advice-of-charge-information-mobile-equipment-sdl-diagram)

[6](#advice-of-charge-information-information-flow-diagram)

[9](#information-stored-in-the-hlr)

[10](#state-transition-model)

[10](#transfer-of-information-from-hlr-to-vlr)

[10](#information-stored-in-the-vlr)

[10](#handover)

[10](#advice-of-charge-charging-aocc)

[10](#advice-of-charge-charging-msc-sdl-diagram)

[11](#advice-of-charge-charging-mobile-equipment-sdl-diagram)

[11](#advice-of-charge-charging-information-flow-diagram)

[11](#aocc-subscriber-roaming-requirements)

[15](#information-stored-in-the-hlr-1)

[16](#state-transition-model-1)

[16](#transfer-of-information-from-hlr-to-vlr-1)

[16](#information-stored-in-the-vlr-1)

[16](#handover-1)

[17](#annex-a-normative-information-stored-in-the-msc)

[18](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 0 Scope 0.1 References
0.2 Abbreviations 1 Advice of Charge (Information) (AoCI) 1.1 Advice of
Charge (Information) MSC SDL diagram 1.2 Advice of Charge (Information)
mobile equipment SDL diagram 1.3 Advice of Charge (Information)
information flow diagram 1.4 Information stored in the HLR 1.5 State
transition model 1.6 Transfer of Information from HLR to VLR 1.7
Information stored in the VLR 1.8 Handover 2 Advice of Charge (Charging)
(AoCC) 2.1 Advice of Charge (Charging) MSC SDL diagram 2.2 Advice of
Charge (Charging) mobile equipment SDL diagram 2.3 Advice of Charge
(Charging) information flow diagram 2.4 AoCC subscriber roaming
requirements 2.5 Information stored in the HLR 2.6 State transition
model 2.7 Transfer of Information from HLR to VLR 2.8 Information stored
in the VLR 2.9 Handover Annex A (normative): Information stored in the
MSC Annex B (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document defines the stage 2 of the Advice of Charge (AoC)
supplementary services within the 3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

0 Scope
=======

The present document gives the stage 2 description of the Advice of
Charge (AoC) supplementary services.

The charging supplementary services currently defined are:

\- Advice of Charge (Information) (AoCI) (clause 1);

\- Advice of Charge (Charging) (AoCC) (clause 2).

0.1 References
--------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.024: \"Description of Charge Advice Information
(CAI)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Services;
Stage 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical Realization of Supplementary Services
- General Aspects\".

0.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905
\[1\].

1 Advice of Charge (Information) (AoCI)
=======================================

1.1 Advice of Charge (Information) MSC SDL diagram
--------------------------------------------------

The SDL diagram for the Advice of Charge (Information) supplementary
service within the MSC is given in figure 1.1.

NOTE 1: AoC (Information) is not applicable to emergency calls.

NOTE 2: The request of generation of the Charge Advice Information (CAI)
applies to AoC initiation or charge modification.

1.2 Advice of Charge (Information) mobile equipment SDL diagram
---------------------------------------------------------------

The SDL diagram for the Advice of Charge (Information) supplementary
service within the mobile equipment is given in figure 1.2. This SDL
indicates when charging calculations are started, amended and stopped,
within the mobile equipment. The mobile equipment should start charging
calculations as soon as possible after receiving the charging
information. Charging calculations should be amended by the mobile
equipment in accordance with GSM 02.24.

NOTE: The point at which the charging calculations are amended can occur
before or after sending the AoC Acknowledge.

Charging calculations are stopped when the call ends for any reason.

The reception of the CAI shall be acknowledged only if the MS supports
the AoCI functionality specified in GSM 02.24 and GSM 02.86, however the
network does not action this acknowledgement in the AoC (Information)
case.

1.3 Advice of Charge (Information) information flow diagram
-----------------------------------------------------------

The Advice of Charge (Information) information flow diagrams are shown
in figure 1.3.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.50625in"}

Figure 1.1: SDL diagram of advice of charge (information) in the MSC

![](media/image4.wmf){width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.50625in"}

Figure 1.2: SDL diagram of advice of charge (information) in the mobile
equipment

![](media/image5.png){width="5.469444444444444in"
height="6.740277777777778in"}

Figure 1.3: Information flow for Advice of Charge (Information)

1.4 Information stored in the HLR
---------------------------------

AoCI may have the following logical states (refer to GSM 03.11 for an
explanation of the notation):

**Provisioning State Registration State Activation State HLR Induction
State**

(Not Provisioned, Not Applicable, Not Active, Not Induced)

(Provisioned, Not Applicable, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

The HLR shall store the logical state of AoCI (which shall be one of the
valid states listed above) on a per subscriber basis.

1.5 State transition model
--------------------------

The following figure shows the successful cases of transition between
the applicable logic states of AoCI. The state changes are caused by
actions of the service provider.

Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do
not cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not
cause a state change. Hence they are not shown in the diagram.

![](media/image6.png){width="4.715277777777778in" height="1.41875in"}

Figure 1.4: State transition model for AoCI

1.6 Transfer of Information from HLR to VLR
-------------------------------------------

If the provisioning state for AoCI is \"Provisioned\" then when the
served subscriber registers on a VLR the HLR shall send that VLR
information about the logical state of AoCI.

If the logical state of AoCI is changed while a subscriber is registered
on a VLR, then the HLR shall inform the VLR of the new logical state of
AoCI.

1.7 Information stored in the VLR
---------------------------------

For the supplementary service AoCI the VLR shall store the service state
information received from the HLR.

1.8 Handover
------------

Handover will have no impact on AoC control procedure.

2 Advice of Charge (Charging) (AoCC)
====================================

2.1 Advice of Charge (Charging) MSC SDL diagram
-----------------------------------------------

The SDL diagram for the Advice of Charge (Charging) supplementary
service within the MSC is given in figure 2.1. At invocation of the
Advice of Charge (Charging) supplementary service the network shall send
the \"Charging\" MS the CAI. The network shall allow the call to proceed
whilst waiting for an acknowledgement of the CAI. The waiting period is
governed by Timer T(AoC). On expiry of T(AoC) the network shall initiate
call clearing.

NOTE 1: AoC (Charging) is not applicable to emergency calls.

NOTE 2: The request of generation of CAI applies to AoC initiation or
charge modification.

2.2 Advice of Charge (Charging) mobile equipment SDL diagram
------------------------------------------------------------

The SDL diagram for the Advice of Charge (Charging) supplementary
service within the mobile equipment is given in figure 2.2. The SDL
indicates when charging calculations are started, amended and stopped,
within the mobile equipment. The mobile equipment should start charging
calculations as soon as possible after receiving the charging
information. Charging calculations should be emended by the mobile
equipment in accordance with GSM 02.24.

NOTE: The point at which charging calculations are amended can occur
before or after sending the AoC Acknowledge.

Charging calculations are stopped when the call ends for any reason.

The reception of the CAI shall be acknowledged only if the MS supports
the AoCC functionality specified in GSM 02.24 and GSM 02.86.

For mobile originated calls, the MS shall prevent a call set-up attempt
if the ACM value is equal to or greater than ACMmax.

For mobile terminated calls, a call set-up attempt shall be allowed even
if the ACM value is equal to or greater than ACMmax. In this case, when
the MS detects that this is a chargeable call and that the ACM value is
equal to or greater than ACMmax then the call shall be released.

During an active call, when the MS detects that ACM is equal to or
greater than ACMmax then the MS shall release the call.

2.3 Advice of Charge (Charging) information flow diagram
--------------------------------------------------------

The Advice of Charge (Charging) information flow diagrams are shown in
figure 2.3.

2.4 AoCC subscriber roaming requirements
----------------------------------------

When an AoCC subscriber first roams into an MSC area not supporting
AoCC, or the subscription is given to him while he is roaming in an MSC
area not supporting AoCC the following applies:

The HLR shall indicate to the VLR that roaming is restricted in this MSC
area due to unsupported feature, and it prevents further mobile
terminated traffic. In this case the MS is not reachable.

When entering an AoCC supporting area the AoCC related roaming
restriction shall be removed in the HLR.

When AoCC is withdrawn the AoCC related roaming restriction shall be
removed in the HLR and VLR. This is independent from roaming
restrictions due to other reasons.

![](media/image7.wmf){width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.50625in"}

Figure 2.1: SDL diagram of advice of charge (charging) in the MSC

![](media/image8.wmf){width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.50625in"}

Figure 2.2: SDL diagram of advice of charge (charging) in the mobile
equipment

![](media/image9.png){width="5.406944444444444in"
height="6.509722222222222in"}

Figure 2.3 (sheet 1 of 2): Information flow for Advice of Charge
(Charging)

![](media/image10.png){width="5.354861111111111in"
height="6.520138888888889in"}

Figure 2.3 (sheet 2 of 2): Information flow for Advice of Charge
(Charging)

2.5 Information stored in the HLR
---------------------------------

AoCC may have the following logical states (refer to GSM 03.11 for an
explanation of the notation):

**Provisioning State Registration State Activation State HLR Induction
State**

(Not Provisioned, Not Applicable, Not Active, Not Induced)

(Provisioned, Not Applicable, Active and Operative, Not Induced)

The HLR shall store the logical state of AoCC (which shall be one of the
valid states listed above) on a per subscriber basis.

2.6 State transition model
--------------------------

The following figure shows the successful cases of transition between
the applicable logic states of AoCC. The state changes are caused by
actions of the service provider.

Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do
not cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not
cause a state change. Hence they are not shown in the diagram.

![](media/image6.png){width="4.715277777777778in" height="1.41875in"}

Figure 2.4: State transition model for AoCC

2.7 Transfer of Information from HLR to VLR
-------------------------------------------

If the provisioning state for AoCC is \"Provisioned\" then when the
served subscriber registers on a VLR the HLR shall send that VLR
information about the logical state of AoCC.

If the logical state of AoCC is changed while a subscriber is registered
on a VLR, then the HLR shall inform the VLR of the new logical state of
AoCC.

2.8 Information stored in the VLR
---------------------------------

For the supplementary service AoCC the VLR shall store the service state
information received from the HLR.

2.9 Handover
------------

Handover will have no impact on AoC control procedure.

######## Annex A (normative): Information stored in the MSC

The MSC shall have access to the following tables to enable the call
handling function to generate the Charge Advice Information (CAI), see
GSM 02.24. The table will give the CAI element values corresponding to
service request, call destination, type of day and the time of day.

\- Units per interval table (e1 values);

\- Seconds per internal table (e2 values);

\- Scaling factor table (e3 values);

\- Unit increment table (e4 values);

\- Units per data interval table (e5 values);

\- Segments per data interval table (e6 values);

\- Initial seconds per time interval table (e7 values).

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- ------ ----- -------- ----- --------- --------------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR     Rev   Phase    Cat   New Ver   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 03.86                R97                      Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     23.086                   R99            3.0.0     Approved at CN\#03
             23.086                   R99            3.0.1     Reference list updated from 2G to 3G
  CN\#09     23.086      001    1     R99      F     3.1.0     SDL refresh
  CN\#11     23.086                   Rel-4          4.0.0     Release 4 after CN\#11
  CN\#16     23.086                   Rel-5          5.0.0     Release 5 after CN\#16
  CN\#26     23.086                   Rel-6          6.0.0     Release 6 after CN\#26
  CT\#30     23.086      0002         Rel-6          6.1.0     Incorrect References
  CT\#36     23.086                   Rel-7          7.0.0     Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     23.086                   Rel-8          8.0.0     Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  CT\#46     23.086      \-     \-    Rel-9          9.0.0     Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    23.086      \-     \-    Rel-10         10.0.0    Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    23.086      \-     \-    Rel-11                   Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    23.086      \-     \-    Rel-12         12.0.0    Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    23.086      \-     \-    Rel-13         13.0.0    Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    23.086      \-     \-    Rel-14         14.0.0    Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    23.086      \-     \-    Rel-15   \-    15.0.0    Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    23.086      \-     \-    Rel-16   \-    16.0.0    Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- ------ ----- -------- ----- --------- --------------------------------------
