![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[7](#high-level-requirements)

[7](#end-user-qos-requirements)

[8](#general-requirements-for-qos)

[8](#technical-requirements-for-qos)

[9](#cs-qos-in-release-1999)

[9](#qos-architecture)

[9](#overview-of-different-levels-of-qos)

[10](#the-end-to-end-service-and-umts-bearer-service)

[10](#the-radio-access-bearer-service-and-the-core-network-bearer-service)

[11](#the-radio-bearer-service-and-the-ran-access-bearer-service)

[11](#the-backbone-network-service)

[11](#qos-management-functions-in-the-network)

[11](#description-of-functions)

[11](#qos-management-functions-for-umts-bearer-service-in-the-control-plane)

[12](#functions-for-umts-bearer-service-in-the-user-plane)

[12](#allocation-of-qos-management-functions)

[12](#qos-management-functions-for-umts-bearer-service-in-the-control-plane-1)

[14](#qos-management-functions-for-the-umts-bearer-service-in-the-user-plane)

[15](#umts-qos-classes)

[15](#conversational-class)

[16](#streaming-class)

[16](#interactive-class)

[16](#background-class)

[17](#qos-attributes)

[17](#asymmetric-bearers)

[17](#sources-of-umts-bearer-service-attributes)

[18](#umts-bearer-service-attributes)

[18](#list-of-attributes)

[20](#attributes-discussed-per-traffic-class)

[22](#umts-bearer-attributes-summary)

[22](#radio-access-bearer-service-attributes)

[22](#list-of-attributes-1)

[25](#attributes-discussed-per-traffic-class-1)

[26](#radio-access-bearer-attributes-summary)

[26](#radio-bearer-service-attributes)

[27](#ran-access-bearer-service-attributes)

[27](#core-network-bearer-service-attributes)

[27](#attribute-value-ranges)

[27](#ranges-of-umts-bearer-service-attributes)

[28](#ranges-of-radio-access-bearer-service-attributes-for-utran-and-for-geran)

[29](#bearer-unrelated-qos-attributes)

[30](#void)

[30](#qos-attribute-mapping)

[30](#from-application-attributes-to-umts-bearer-service-attributes)

[30](#from-umts-bearer-service-attributes-to-radio-access-bearer-service-attributes)

[31](#from-umts-bearer-service-attributes-to-cn-bearer-service-attributes)

[31](#interworking)

[31](#umts-gsm-csgprs)

[31](#umts-gsm-cs)

[32](#handover-from-umts-to-gsm)

[32](#handover-from-gsm-to-umts)

[32](#umts-gprs)

[32](#general-rules)

[33](#determining-r99-attributes-from-r9798-attributes)

[34](#determining-r9798-attributes-from-r99-attributes)

[35](#umts-pstn)

[35](#umts-isdn)

[36](#umts-internet)

[37](#annex-a-informative-error-resilience-in-real-time-packet-multimedia-payloads)

[37](#a.1-introduction)

[37](#a.1.1-factors-affecting-error-resilience)

[37](#a.2-example-figures)

[39](#annex-b-normative-reference-algorithm-for-conformance-definition-of-bitrate)

[40](#annex-c-normative-determine-which-qos-profile-is-of-highest-qos)

[41](#annex-d-normative-determine-traffic-class-weights-in-hlr-qos-profile)

[42](#annex-e-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and Abbreviations 4 High Level Requirements 4.1 End User QoS
Requirements 4.2 General Requirements for QoS 4.3 Technical Requirements
for QoS 5 CS QoS in release 1999 6 QoS Architecture 6.1 Overview of
Different Levels of QoS 6.1.1 The End-to-End Service and UMTS Bearer
Service 6.1.2 The Radio Access Bearer Service and the Core Network
Bearer Service 6.1.3 The Radio Bearer Service and the RAN Access Bearer
Service 6.1.4 The Backbone Network Service 6.2 QoS Management Functions
in the Network 6.2.1 Description of functions 6.2.1.1 QoS management
functions for UMTS bearer service in the control plane 6.2.1.2 Functions
for UMTS bearer service in the user plane 6.2.2 Allocation of QoS
management functions 6.2.2.1 QoS management functions for UMTS bearer
service in the control plane 6.2.2.2 QoS management functions for the
UMTS bearer service in the user plane 6.3 UMTS QoS Classes 6.3.1
Conversational class 6.3.2 Streaming class 6.3.3 Interactive class 6.3.4
Background class 6.4 QoS Attributes 6.4.1 Asymmetric Bearers 6.4.2
Sources of UMTS Bearer Service Attributes 6.4.3 UMTS Bearer Service
Attributes 6.4.3.1 List of attributes 6.4.3.2 Attributes discussed per
traffic class 6.4.3.3 UMTS bearer attributes: summary 6.4.4 Radio Access
Bearer Service Attributes 6.4.4.1 List of attributes 6.4.4.2 Attributes
discussed per traffic class 6.4.4.3 Radio Access Bearer attributes:
summary 6.4.5 Radio Bearer Service Attributes 6.4.6 RAN Access Bearer
Service Attributes 6.4.7 Core Network Bearer Service Attributes 6.5
Attribute Value Ranges 6.5.1 Ranges of UMTS Bearer Service Attributes
6.5.2 Ranges of Radio Access Bearer Service Attributes for UTRAN and for
GERAN 6.6 Bearer unrelated QoS Attributes 7 Void 8 QoS Attribute Mapping
8.1 From Application Attributes to UMTS Bearer Service Attributes 8.2
From UMTS Bearer Service Attributes to Radio Access Bearer Service
Attributes 8.3 From UMTS Bearer Service Attributes to CN Bearer Service
Attributes 9 Interworking 9.1 UMTS-GSM CS/GPRS 9.1.1 UMTS-GSM CS 9.1.1.1
Handover from UMTS to GSM 9.1.1.2 Handover from GSM to UMTS 9.1.2
UMTS-GPRS 9.1.2.1 General rules 9.1.2.2 Determining R99 attributes from
R97/98 attributes 9.1.2.3 Determining R97/98 attributes from R99
attributes 9.2 UMTS-PSTN 9.3 UMTS-ISDN 9.4 UMTS-Internet Annex A
(informative): Error resilience in real-time packet multimedia payloads
A.1 Introduction A.1.1 Factors affecting error resilience A.2 Example
figures Annex B (normative): Reference Algorithm for Conformance
Definition of Bitrate Annex C (normative): Determine which QoS profile
is of highest QoS Annex D (normative): Determine Traffic Class weights
in HLR QoS profile Annex E (informative): Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document identifies the Quality of Service (QoS) aspects for
the 3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document provides the framework for Quality of Service
within the 3GPP system. The main purpose is to specify the list of
attributes applicable to the UMTS Bearer Service and the Radio Access
Bearer Service, as well as describe the Quality of Service architecture
to be used in the 3GPP system.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 23.110: \"UMTS Access Stratum - Services and Functions\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.100: \"UMTS Phase 1\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 23.121: \"Architectural Requirements for Release 1999\".

\[4\] Void.

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services & Service capabilities\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification;
Core Network Protocols -- Stage 3\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 23.207: \"End-to-end QoS concept and architecture\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organization of subscriber data\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 23.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
service (eMLPP) - Stage 2\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 03.60 (Release 1998): \"Digital cellular
telecommunications system (Phase 2+); General Packet Radio Service
(GPRS); Service description; Stage 2 (Release 1998)\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC);
Stage 2\".

3 Definitions and Abbreviations
===============================

For the purpose of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

3G 3rd Generation

AMR Adaptive Multirate speech codec

ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode

BER Bit Error Rate

BS Bearer Service

CC Call Control

CN Core Network

CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check

CS Circuit Switched

DTX Discontinuous Transmission

FDD Frequency Division Duplex

FER Frame Erasure Ratio

FTP File Transfer Protocol

GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network

GPRS General Packet Radio Service

GSM Global System for Mobile Communication

IETF Internet Engineering Task Force

IP Internet Protocol

ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network

MO Mobile Originating Call

MPEG Moving Pictures Expert Group

MT Mobile Terminal

MTC Mobile Terminated Call

NS Network Service

PDP Packet Data Protocol

PDU Protocol Data Unit

PS Packet Switched

PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network

QoS Quality of Service

RA Routing Area

RAB Radio Access Bearer

RAN Radio Access Network

RLC Radio Link Control

RSVP Resource Reservation Protocol

RT Real Time

RTP Real Time Transport Protocol

SAP Service Access Point

SDU Service Data Unit

SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node

SLA Service Level Agreement

SMS Short Message Service

SVC Switched Virtual Circuit

UDP User Datagram Protocol

TBC Token Bucket Counter

TDD Time Division Duplex

TE Terminal Equipment

TSPEC Traffic Specification

UE User Equipment

UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System

UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network

4 High Level Requirements
=========================

4.1 End User QoS Requirements
-----------------------------

Generally, end users care only the issues that are visible to them. The
involvement of the user leads to the following conclusions. From the
end-user point of view:

\- only the QoS perceived by end-user matter;

\- the number of user defined/controlled attributes has to be as small
as possible;

\- derivation/definition of QoS attributes from the application
requirements has to be simple;

\- QoS attributes shall be able to support all applications that are
used, a certain number of applications have the characteristic of
asymmetric nature between two directions, uplink/downlink;

\- QoS definitions have to be future proof;

\- QoS has to be provided end-to-end.

4.2 General Requirements for QoS
--------------------------------

\- QoS attributes (or mapping of them) should not be restricted to one
or few external QoS control mechanisms but the QoS concept should be
capable of providing different levels of QoS by using UMTS specific
control mechanisms (not related to QoS mechanisms in the external
networks).

\- All attributes have to have unambiguous meaning.

\- QoS mechanism have to allow efficient use of radio capacity.

\- Allow independent evolution of Core and Access networks.

\- Allow evolution of UMTS network, (i.e., eliminate or minimise the
impact of evolution of transport technologies in the wireline world).

\- All attribute combinations have to have unambiguous meaning.

4.3 Technical Requirements for QoS
----------------------------------

This clause presents the general high-level technical requirements for
the UMTS QoS. QoS will be defined with a set of attributes. These
attributes should meet the following criteria:

\- UMTS QoS control mechanisms shall provide QoS attribute control on a
peer to peer basis between UE and 3G gateway node;

\- the UMTS QoS mechanisms shall provide a mapping between application
requirements and UMTS services;

\- the UMTS QoS control mechanisms shall be able to efficiently
interwork with current QoS schemes. Further, the QoS concept should be
capable of providing different levels of QoS by using UMTS specific
control mechanisms (not related to QoS mechanisms in the external
networks);

\- a session based approach needs to be adopted for all packet mode
communication within the 3G serving node with which UMTS QoS approach
shall be intimately linked, essential features are multiple QoS streams
per address;

\- the UMTS shall provide a finite set of QoS definitions;

\- the overhead and additional complexity caused by the QoS scheme
should be kept reasonably low, as well as the amount of state
information transmitted and stored in the network;

\- QoS shall support efficient resource utilisation;

\- the QoS attributes are needed to support asymmetric bearers;

\- applications (or special software in UE or 3G gateway node) should be
able to indicate QoS values for their data transmissions;

\- QoS behaviour should be dynamic , i.e., it shall be possible to
modify QoS attributes during an active session;

\- number of attributes should be kept reasonably low (increasing number
of attributes, increase system complexity);

\- user QoS requirements shall be satisfied by the system, including
when change of SGSN within the Core Network occurs.

5 CS QoS in release 1999
========================

For UMTS release \'99 CS-CC, the QoS related bearer definitions of GSM
(as defined in bearer capability information element, octet 6 and its
extensions) are sufficient.

Based on the Bearer Capability information element the following
services can be identified:

**a) speech:** from the Information Transfer Capability (ITC) parameter;

**b) data, non-transparent:** from the ITC and Connection element (CE)
parameters;

**c) data, transparent:** from the ITC and CE parameters.

For each of the above services, associated call control parameters,
including the Bearer Capability information element, can be considered
to define the UMTS bearer service.

The further mapping to Radio Access Bearer attributes is done according
to the principles described in clause 8.

NOTE: The mapping from GSM CC to UMTS RAB attributes is in the
responsibility of CN WG1 and CN WG3.

6 QoS Architecture
==================

6.1 Overview of Different Levels of QoS
---------------------------------------

Network Services are considered end-to-end, this means from a Terminal
Equipment (TE) to another TE. An End-to-End Service may have a certain
Quality of Service (QoS) which is provided for the user of a network
service. It is the user that decides whether he is satisfied with the
provided QoS or not.

To realise a certain network QoS a Bearer Service with clearly defined
characteristics and functionality is to be set up from the source to the
destination of a service.

A bearer service includes all aspects to enable the provision of a
contracted QoS. These aspects are among others the control signalling,
user plane transport and QoS management functionality. A UMTS bearer
service layered architecture is depicted in figure 1, each bearer
service on a specific layer offers it\'s individual services using
services provided by the layers below.

Figure 1: UMTS QoS Architecture

### 6.1.1 The End-to-End Service and UMTS Bearer Service

On its way from the TE to another TE the traffic has to pass different
bearer services of the network(s). A TE is connected to the UMTS network
by use of a Mobile Termination (MT). The **End-to-End Service** on the
application level uses the bearer services of the underlying network(s).
As the **End-to-End Service** is conveyed over several networks (not
only UMTS) it is not subject for further elaboration in the present
document.

The **End-to-End-Service** used by the TE will be realised using a
**TE/MT Local Bearer Service**, a **UMTS Bearer Service**, and an
**External Bearer Service**.

**TE/MT Local Bearer Service** is not further elaborated here as this
bearer service is outside the scope of the UMTS network.

Having said that the **End-to-End Bearer Service** is beyond the scope
of the present document it is however the various services offered by
the **UMTS Bearer Service** that the UMTS operator offers. It is this
bearer service that provides the UMTS QoS.

The **External Bearer Service** is not further elaborated here as this
bearer may be using several network services, e.g. another **UMTS Bearer
Service***.*

### 6.1.2 The Radio Access Bearer Service and the Core Network Bearer Service

As described in the previous clause it is the UMTS Bearer Service that
provides the UMTS QoS. The UMTS Bearer Service consists of two parts,
the Radio Access Bearer Service and the Core Network Bearer Service.
Both services reflects the optimised way to realise the UMTS Bearer
Service over the respective cellular network topology taking into
account such aspects as e.g. mobility and mobile subscriber profiles.

The Radio Access Bearer Service provides confidential transport of
signalling and user data between MT and CN Edge Node with the QoS
adequate to the negotiated UMTS Bearer Service or with the default QoS
for signalling. This service is based on the characteristics of the
radio interface and is maintained for a moving MT.

If unequal error protection shall be supported, it is provided by
underlying Radio Bearer Services. In this case the payload of the user
data SDU, transported by the Radio Access Bearer Service, shall conform
to a SDU format defined with possible exact sizes and the payload bits
statically structured per size. Each bit of the SDU payload belongs to a
defined subflow. At Radio Access Bearer Service establishment, the exact
SDU payload format and required reliability per subflow is signalled to
RAN using standardised attributes (see clause 6.4.3).

In release 1999, unequal error protection for a Radio Access Bearer is
only applicable for services using a codec integrated in the core
network. This implies that UMTS Bearer service can not use the attribute
SDU format information to define subflows and the payload bits of the
SDUs will therefore be equally protected.

The Core Network Bearer Service of the UMTS core network connects the
UMTS CN Edge Node with the CN Gateway to the external network. The role
of this service is to efficiently control and utilise the backbone
network in order to provide the contracted UMTS bearer service. The UMTS
packet core network shall support different backbone bearer services for
variety of QoS.

### 6.1.3 The Radio Bearer Service and the RAN Access Bearer Service

The Radio Access Bearer Service is realised by a Radio Bearer Service
and an RAN Access -Bearer Service.

The Radio Bearer Service covers all the aspects of the radio interface
transport. This bearer service is provided by the UTRAN FDD/TDD or the
GERAN, which are not elaborated further in the present document.

To support unequal error protection, RAN and MT shall have the ability
to segment/reassemble the user flows into the different subflows
requested by the Radio Access Bearer Service. The segmentation/
reassemble is given by the SDU payload format signalled at Radio Access
Bearer establishment. The Radio Bearer service handles the part of the
user flow belonging to one subflow, according to the reliability
requirements for that subflow.

The RAN Access Bearer Service together with the Physical Bearer Service
provides the transport between RAN and CN. RAN Access bearer services
for packet traffic shall provide different bearer services for variety
of QoS. The RAN Access Bearer Service is provided by the Iu or the Gb
Bearer Service.

### 6.1.4 The Backbone Network Service

The Core Network Bearer Service uses a generic Backbone Network Service.

The Backbone Network Service covers the layer 1/Layer2 functionality and
is selected according to operator\'s choice in order to fulfil the QoS
requirements of the Core Network Bearer Service. The Backbone Network
Service is not specific to UMTS but may reuse an existing standard.

6.2 QoS Management Functions in the Network
-------------------------------------------

The purpose of this clause is to give a comprehensive overview of
functionality needed to establish, modify and maintain a UMTS Bearer
Service with a specific QoS. The relations between the functions
internal to the nodes are implementation specific. The allocation of
these functions to the UMTS entities shall indicate the requirement for
the specific entity to enforce the QoS commitments negotiated for the
UMTS bearer service. The specific realisation of these functions is
implementation dependent and has only to maintain the specified QoS
characteristics. The QoS management functions of all UMTS entities
together shall ensure the provision of the negotiated service between
the access points of the UMTS bearer service. The end-to-end service is
provided by translation/mapping with UMTS external services.

### 6.2.1 Description of functions

### 6.2.1.1 QoS management functions for UMTS bearer service in the control plane

**Service Manager** co-ordinates the functions of the control plane for
establishing, modifying and maintaining the service it is responsible
for. And, it provides all user plane QoS management functions with the
relevant attributes. The service manager offers services to other
instances, it signals with peer service managers and uses services
provided by other instances. The service manager may perform an
attribute translation to request lower layer services. Furthermore, it
may interrogate other control functions to receive permission for
service provision.

**Translation function** converts between the internal service
primitives for UMTS bearer service control and the various protocols for
service control of interfacing external networks. The translation
includes the converting between UMTS bearer service attributes and QoS
attributes of the external networks service control protocol (e.g.
between IETF TSPEC and UMTS service attributes). The service manager may
include a translation function to convert between its service attributes
and the attributes of a lower layer service it is using.

**Admission/Capability control** maintains information about all
available resources of a network entity and about all resources
allocated to UMTS bearer services. It determines for each UMTS bearer
service request or modification whether the required resources can be
provided by this entity and it reserves these resources if allocated to
the UMTS bearer service. The function checks also the capability of the
network entity to provide the requested service, i.e. whether the
specific service is implemented and not blocked for administrative
reasons. The resource control performed by the admission control
supports also the service retention.

**Subscription Control** checks the administrative rights of the UMTS
bearer service user to use the requested service with the specified QoS
attributes.

### 6.2.1.2 Functions for UMTS bearer service in the user plane

User plane QoS management functions maintain the signalling and user
data traffic within certain limits, defined by specific QoS attributes.
UMTS bearer services with different QoS attribute values shall be
supported by the QoS management functions. These functions ensure the
provision of the QoS negotiated for a UMTS bearer service.

**Mapping function** provides each data unit with the specific marking
required to receive the intended QoS at the transfer by a bearer
service.

**Classification function** assigns data units to the established
services of a MT according to the related QoS attributes if the MT has
multiple UMTS bearer services established. The appropriate UMTS bearer
service is derived from the data unit header or from traffic
characteristics of the data.

**Resource Manager** distributes the available resources between all
services sharing the same resource. The resource manager distributes the
resources according to the required QoS. Example means for resource
management are scheduling, bandwidth management and power control for
the radio bearer.

**Traffic conditioner** provides conformance between the negotiated QoS
for a service and the data unit traffic. Traffic conditioning is
performed by policing or by traffic shaping. The policing function
compares the data unit traffic with the related QoS attributes. Data
units not matching the relevant attributes will be dropped or marked as
not matching, for preferential dropping in case of congestion. The
traffic shaper forms the data unit traffic according to the QoS of the
service. The reference algorithm for traffic conditioning is described
in Annex B. This reference algorithm should not be interpreted as a
required implementation algorithm.

### 6.2.2 Allocation of QoS management functions

### 6.2.2.1 QoS management functions for UMTS bearer service in the control plane

The QoS management functions for controlling the UMTS bearer service are
shown in figure 2. These control functions support the establishment and
the modification of a UMTS bearer service by signalling/negotiation with
the UMTS external services and by the establishment or modification of
all UMTS internal services with the required characteristics.

Figure 2: QoS management functions for UMTS bearer service in the
control plane

The translation functions (Trans.) in the MT and the Gateway convert
between external service signalling and internal service primitives
including the translation of the service attributes. The translation
function in the Gateway is FFS regarding packet oriented services.

The UMTS BS manager in the MT, CN EDGE and the Gateway signal between
each other and via the translation function with external instances to
establish or modify a UMTS bearer service. Each of the UMTS BS managers
interrogates its associated admission/capability control whether the
network entity supports the specific requested service and whether the
required resources are available. Additionally, the CN EDGE UMTS BS
manager verifies with the subscription control the administrative rights
for using the service.

The UMTS BS manager of the MT translates the UMTS bearer service
attributes into attributes for the local bearer service and requests
this service from the local BS manager.

The UMTS BS manager of the CN EDGE translates the UMTS bearer service
attributes into RAB service attributes and RAN Access bearer service
attributes and it translates UMTS bearer service attributes into CN
bearer service attributes. Also, the UMTS BS manager of the CN EDGE
requests its RAN Access BS manager, its CN BS manager and the RAB
manager in the RAN to provide the required services.

The RAB manager verifies with its admission/capability control whether
the RAN supports the specific requested service and whether the required
resources are available. It translates the RAB service attributes into
radio bearer service and RAN Access bearer service attributes and
requests the radio BS manager and the RAN Access BS manager to provide
bearer services with the required attributes.

The Gateway UMTS BS manager translates the UMTS bearer service
attributes into CN bearer service attributes and requests its CN BS
manager to provide the service. Furthermore, it translates the UMTS
bearer service attributes into the external bearer service attributes
and requests this service from the external BS manager.

Radio, RAN Access and CN BS managers use services provided by lower
layers as indicated in figure 2.

### 6.2.2.2 QoS management functions for the UMTS bearer service in the user plane

The QoS management functions of the UMTS BS for the user plane are shown
in figure 3. These functions maintain the data transfer characteristics
according to the commitments established by the UMTS BS control
functions and expressed by the bearer service attributes. The QoS
management user plane functions are provided with the relevant
attributes by the QoS management control functions.

Figure 3: QoS management functions for the UMTS bearer service in the
user plane

The classification function (Class.) in the Gateway and in the MT assign
user data units received from the external bearer service or the local
bearer service to the appropriate UMTS bearer service according to the
QoS requirements of each user data unit. The classification function in
the MT is FFS.

The traffic conditioner (Cond.) in the MT provides conformance of the
uplink user data traffic with the QoS attributes of the relevant UMTS
bearer service. In the Gateway a traffic conditioner may provide
conformance of the downlink user data traffic with the QoS attributes of
the relevant UMTS bearer service; i.e. on a per PDP context basis. In
addition, the traffic conditioner in the Gateway may provide conformance
of the uplink and downlink user data traffic with QoS attributes related
to the whole non-guaranteed bit-rate traffic of a UE for an APN (i.e.
APN-AMBR). The packet oriented transport of the downlink data units from
the external bearer service to the RAN and the buffering in the RAN may
result in bursts of downlink data units not conformant with the UMTS BS
QoS attributes. A traffic conditioner in the RAN forms this downlink
data unit traffic according to the relevant QoS attributes. In addition,
the traffic conditioner in the RAN may provide conformance of the uplink
and downlink user data traffic (traffic) with QoS attributes related to
the whole non-guaranteed bit-rate traffic of a UE (i.e. UE-AMBR).

The traffic conditioners are not necessarily separated functions. For
example a resource manager may also provide conformance with the
relevant QoS attributes by appropriate data unit scheduling. Or, if
fixed resources are dedicated to one bearer service the resource
limitations implicitly condition the traffic.

The mapping function marks each data unit with the specific QoS
indication related to the bearer service performing the transfer of the
data unit.

Each of the resource managers of a network entity is responsible for a
specific resource. The resource manager distributes its resources
between all bearer services requesting transfer of data units on these
resources. Thereby, the resource manager attempts to provide the QoS
attributes required for each individual bearer service.

6.3 UMTS QoS Classes
--------------------

When defining the UMTS QoS classes, also referred to as traffic classes,
the restrictions and limitations of the air interface have to be taken
into account. It is not reasonable to define complex mechanisms as have
been in fixed networks due to different error characteristics of the air
interface. The QoS mechanisms provided in the cellular network have to
be robust and capable of providing reasonable QoS resolution. Table 1
illustrates the QoS classes for UMTS.

There are four different QoS classes:

\- conversational class;

\- streaming class;

\- interactive class; and

\- background class.

The main distinguishing factor between these QoS classes is how delay
sensitive the traffic is: Conversational class is meant for traffic
which is very delay sensitive while Background class is the most delay
insensitive traffic class.

Conversational and Streaming classes are mainly intended to be used to
carry real-time traffic flows. The main divider between them is how
delay sensitive the traffic is. Conversational real-time services, like
video telephony, are the most delay sensitive applications and those
data streams should be carried in Conversational class.

Interactive class and Background are mainly meant to be used by
traditional Internet applications like WWW, Email, Telnet, FTP and News.
Due to looser delay requirements, compare to conversational and
streaming classes, both provide better error rate by means of channel
coding and retransmission. The main difference between Interactive and
Background class is that Interactive class is mainly used by interactive
applications, e.g. interactive Email or interactive Web browsing, while
Background class is meant for background traffic, e.g. background
download of Emails or background file downloading. Responsiveness of the
interactive applications is ensured by separating interactive and
background applications. Traffic in the Interactive class has higher
priority in scheduling than Background class traffic, so background
applications use transmission resources only when interactive
applications do not need them. This is very important in wireless
environment where the bandwidth is low compared to fixed networks.

However, these are only typical examples of usage of the traffic
classes. There is in particular no strict one-to-one mapping between
classes of service (as defined in TS 22.105 \[5\]) and the traffic
classes defined in this TS. For instance, a service interactive by
nature can very well use the Conversational traffic class if the
application or the user has tight requirements on delay.

### 6.3.1 Conversational class

The most well known use of this scheme is telephony speech (e.g. GSM).
But with Internet and multimedia a number of new applications will
require this scheme, for example voice over IP and video conferencing
tools. Real time conversation is always performed between peers (or
groups) of live (human) end-users. This is the only scheme where the
required characteristics are strictly given by human perception.

Real time conversation scheme is characterised by that the transfer time
shall be low because of the conversational nature of the scheme and at
the same time that the time relation (variation) between information
entities of the stream shall be preserved in the same way as for real
time streams. The maximum transfer delay is given by the human
perception of video and audio conversation. Therefore the limit for
acceptable transfer delay is very strict, as failure to provide low
enough transfer delay will result in unacceptable lack of quality. The
transfer delay requirement is therefore both significantly lower and
more stringent than the round trip delay of the interactive traffic
case.

Real time conversation - fundamental characteristics for QoS:

\- preserve time relation (variation) between information entities of
the stream;

\- conversational pattern (stringent and low delay).

### 6.3.2 Streaming class

When the user is looking at (listening to) real time video (audio) the
scheme of real time streams applies. The real time data flow is always
aiming at a live (human) destination. It is a one way transport.

This scheme is one of the newcomers in data communication, raising a
number of new requirements in both telecommunication and data
communication systems. It is characterised by that the time relations
(variation) between information entities (i.e. samples, packets) within
a flow shall be preserved, although it does not have any requirements on
low transfer delay.

The delay variation of the end-to-end flow shall be limited, to preserve
the time relation (variation) between information entities of the
stream. But as the stream normally is time aligned at the receiving end
(in the user equipment), the highest acceptable delay variation over the
transmission media is given by the capability of the time alignment
function of the application. Acceptable delay variation is thus much
greater than the delay variation given by the limits of human
perception.

Real time streams - fundamental characteristics for QoS:

\- preserve time relation (variation) between information entities of
the stream.

### 6.3.3 Interactive class

When the end-user, that is either a machine or a human, is on line
requesting data from remote equipment (e.g. a server), this scheme
applies. Examples of human interaction with the remote equipment are:
web browsing, data base retrieval, server access. Examples of machines
interaction with remote equipment are: polling for measurement records
and automatic data base enquiries (tele-machines).

Interactive traffic is the other classical data communication scheme
that on an overall level is characterised by the request response
pattern of the end-user. At the message destination there is an entity
expecting the message (response) within a certain time. Round trip delay
time is therefore one of the key attributes. Another characteristic is
that the content of the packets shall be transparently transferred (with
low bit error rate).

Interactive traffic - fundamental characteristics for QoS:

\- request response pattern;

\- preserve payload content.

### 6.3.4 Background class

When the end-user, that typically is a computer, sends and receives
data-files in the background, this scheme applies. Examples are
background delivery of E-mails, SMS, download of databases and reception
of measurement records.

Background traffic is one of the classical data communication schemes
that on an overall level is characterised by that the destination is not
expecting the data within a certain time. The scheme is thus more or
less delivery time insensitive. Another characteristic is that the
content of the packets shall be transparently transferred (with low bit
error rate).

Background traffic - fundamental characteristics for QoS:

\- the destination is not expecting the data within a certain time;

\- preserve payload content.

Table 1: UMTS QoS classes

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Traffic     | Con         | Streaming   | Interactive | Background  |
| class       | versational | class       | class       |             |
|             | class       |             |             | Background  |
|             |             | streaming   | Interactive | best effort |
|             | con         | RT          | best effort |             |
|             | versational |             |             |             |
|             | RT          |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Fundamental | \- Preserve | \- Preserve | \- Request  | \-          |
| char        | time        | time        | response    | Destination |
| acteristics | relation    | relation    | pattern     | is not      |
|             | (variation) | (variation) |             | expecting   |
|             | between     | between     | \- Preserve | the data    |
|             | information | information | payload     | within a    |
|             | entities of | entities of | content     | certain     |
|             | the stream  | the stream  |             | time        |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | Con         |             |             | \- Preserve |
|             | versational |             |             | payload     |
|             | pattern     |             |             | content     |
|             | (stringent  |             |             |             |
|             | and low     |             |             |             |
|             | delay )     |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Example of  | \- voice    | \-          | \- Web      | \-          |
| the         |             | streaming   | browsing    | background  |
| application |             | video       |             | download of |
|             |             |             |             | emails      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

6.4 QoS Attributes
------------------

NOTE: The discussion of UMTS bearer service attributes as well as radio
access bearer attributes is still going on. Especially the bitrate
attributes are under discussion and few comments have also been given to
reliability attribute.

### 6.4.1 Asymmetric Bearers

Uni-directional and bi-directional bearer services shall be supported.
For bi-directional bearer services, the attributes Maximum bitrate, and
Guaranteed bitrate should be possible to set separately for
uplink/downlink in order to support asymmetric bearers.

### 6.4.2 Sources of UMTS Bearer Service Attributes

UMTS bearer service attributes describe the service provided by the UMTS
network to the user of the UMTS bearer service. A set of QoS attributes
(QoS profile) specifies this service. At UMTS bearer service
establishment or modification different QoS profiles have to be taken
into account.

\- The UE capabilities form a QoS profile which may limit the UMTS
bearer service which can be provided.

\- The UE or the terminal equipment (TE) within the terminating network
may request a QoS profile at UMTS bearer establishment or modification.
The application using the UE may request the UE to provide a UMTS bearer
service with a specific QoS profile. If the application requests no
specific QoS the UE may use a QoS profile configured within the UE
(e.g., by AT commands). How the TE derives a QoS profile is out of scope
for UMTS.

\- A QoS profile in the UMTS subscription describes the upper limits for
the provided service if the service user requests specific values.

\- If the UE requests or modifies a UMTS bearer and one or more of the
QoS attributes are not specified by the UE by setting the attributes to
\'subscribed\', the SGSN shall assume a request of values as specified
in the QoS profile in the UMTS subscription. If the UE sets the traffic
class to \'subscribed\', the SGSN shall assume a request for Interactive
class. When the application in the UE requires streaming or
conversational QoS, then the UE shall at least explicitly request the
traffic class and should explicitly request the guaranteed bit rate and
the maximum bit rate. For the rest of the QoS attributes, the network
shall ensure that the negotiated QoS contains only values explicitly
defined for the traffic class.

\- A Network specific QoS profile characterising for example the current
resource availability or other network capabilities or limitations may
limit the provided UMTS bearer service or initiate a modification of an
established UMTS bearer service.

### 6.4.3 UMTS Bearer Service Attributes

### 6.4.3.1 List of attributes

**Traffic class (\'conversational\', \'streaming\', \'interactive\',
\'background\')**

Definition: type of application for which the UMTS bearer service is
optimised

\[Purpose: By including the traffic class itself as an attribute, UMTS
can make assumptions about the traffic source and optimise the transport
for that traffic type.\]

**Maximum bitrate (kbps)**

Definition: maximum number of bits delivered by UMTS and to UMTS at a
SAP within a period of time, divided by the duration of the period. The
traffic is conformant with Maximum bitrate as long as it follows a token
bucket algorithm where token rate equals Maximum bitrate and bucket size
equals Maximum SDU size.

The conformance definition should not be interpreted as a required
implementation algorithm. The token bucket algorithm is described in
annex B.

The Maximum bitrate is the upper limit a user or application can accept
or provide. All UMTS bearer service attributes may be fulfilled for
traffic up to the Maximum bitrate depending on the network conditions.

\[Purpose: Maximum bitrate can be used to make code reservations in the
downlink of the radio interface. Its purpose is 1) to limit the
delivered bitrate to applications or external networks with such
limitations 2) to allow maximum wanted user bitrate to be defined for
applications able to operate with different rates (e.g. applications
with adapting codecs).\]

**Guaranteed bitrate (kbps)**

Definition: guaranteed number of bits delivered by UMTS at a SAP within
a period of time (provided that there is data to deliver), divided by
the duration of the period. The traffic is conformant with the
guaranteed bitrate as long as it follows a token bucket algorithm where
token rate equals Guaranteed bitrate and bucket size equals Maximum SDU
size.

The conformance definition should not be interpreted as a required
implementation algorithm. The token bucket algorithm is described in
annex B.

UMTS bearer service attributes, e.g. delay and reliability attributes,
are guaranteed for traffic up to the Guaranteed bitrate. For the traffic
exceeding the Guaranteed bitrate the UMTS bearer service attributes are
not guaranteed.

\[Purpose: Describes the bitrate the UMTS bearer service shall guarantee
to the user or application. Guaranteed bitrate may be used to facilitate
admission control based on available resources, and for resource
allocation within UMTS.\]

**Delivery order (y/n)**

Definition: indicates whether the UMTS bearer shall provide in-sequence
SDU delivery or not.

\[Purpose: the attribute is derived from the user protocol (PDP type)
and specifies if out-of-sequence SDUs are acceptable or not. This
information cannot be extracted from the traffic class. Whether
out-of-sequence SDUs are dropped or re-ordered depends on the specified
reliability\]

Delivery order should be set to \'no\' for PDP Type = \'IPv4\' or
\'IPv6\'. The SGSN shall ensure that the appropriate value is set.

**Maximum SDU size (octets)**

Definition: the maximum SDU size for which the network shall satisfy the
negotiated QoS.

\[Purpose: The maximum SDU size is used for admission control and
policing and/or optimising transport (optimized transport in for example
the RAN may be dependent on the size of the packets). Handling by the
network of packets larger than Maximum SDU size is implementation
specific (e.g. they may be dropped or forwarded with decreased QoS).\]

NOTE: The Maximum Transfer Unit (MTU) of the IP layer and the Maximum
SDU Size have no relationship; in particular the GGSN should not perform
IP fragmentation based on the Maximum SDU Size.

**SDU format information (bits)**

Definition: list of possible exact sizes of SDUs

\[Purpose: RAN needs SDU size information to be able to operate in
transparent RLC protocol mode, which is beneficial to spectral
efficiency and delay when RLC re-transmission is not used. Thus, if the
application can specify SDU sizes, the bearer is less expensive.\]

**SDU error ratio**

Definition: Indicates the fraction of SDUs lost or detected as
erroneous. SDU error ratio is defined only for conforming traffic.

NOTE 1: By reserving resources, SDU error ratio performance is
independent of the loading conditions, whereas without reserved
resources, such as in Interactive and Background classes, SDU error
ratio is used as target value.

\[Purpose: Used to configure the protocols, algorithms and error
detection schemes, primarily within RAN.\]

**Residual bit error ratio**

Definition: Indicates the undetected bit error ratio in the delivered
SDUs. If no error detection is requested, Residual bit error ratio
indicates the bit error ratio in the delivered SDUs.

\[Purpose: Used to configure radio interface protocols, algorithms and
error detection coding.\]

**Delivery of erroneous SDUs (y/n/-)**

Definition: Indicates whether SDUs detected as erroneous shall be
delivered or discarded.

NOTE 2: \'yes\' implies that error detection is employed and that
erroneous SDUs are delivered together with an error indication, \'no\'
implies that error detection is employed and that erroneous SDUs are
discarded, and \'-\' implies that SDUs are delivered without considering
error detection.

\[Purpose: Used to decide whether error detection is needed and whether
frames with detected errors shall be forwarded or not.\]

**Transfer delay (ms)**

Definition: Indicates maximum delay for 95^th^ percentile of the
distribution of delay for all delivered SDUs during the lifetime of a
bearer service, where delay for an SDU is defined as the time from a
request to transfer an SDU at one SAP to its delivery at the other SAP.

\[Purpose: relates to the delay tolerated by the application. In
conjunction with the SDU error ratio attribute, care needs to be taken
in deriving the value for the 95th percentile when an application
desires, for example, that 99.9% of all transmitted packets are
delivered within a certain time. This attribute allows RAN to set
transport formats and ARQ parameters.\]

NOTE 3: Transfer delay of an arbitrary SDU is not meaningful for a
bursty source, since the last SDUs of a burst may have long delay due to
queuing, whereas the meaningful response delay perceived by the user is
the delay of the first SDU of the burst.

**Traffic handling priority**

Definition: specifies the relative importance for handling of all SDUs
belonging to the UMTS bearer compared to the SDUs of other bearers.

\[Purpose: Within the interactive class, there is a definite need to
differentiate between bearer qualities. This is handled by using the
traffic handling priority attribute, to allow UMTS to schedule traffic
accordingly. By definition, priority is an alternative to absolute
guarantees, and thus these two attribute types cannot be used together
for a single bearer.\]

**Allocation/Retention Priority**

Definition: specifies the relative importance compared to other UMTS
bearers for allocation and retention of the UMTS bearer. The
Allocation/Retention Priority attribute is a subscription attribute
which is not negotiated from the mobile terminal, but the value might be
changed either by the SGSN or the GGSN network element.

NOTE 4: The addition of a user-controlled Allocation/Retention Priority
attribute is for further study in future releases.

\[Purpose: Priority is used for differentiating between bearers when
performing allocation and retention of a bearer. In situations where
resources are scarce, the relevant network elements can use the
Allocation/Retention Priority to prioritize bearers with a high
Allocation/Retention Priority over bearers with a low
Allocation/Retention Priority when performing admission control.\]

**Source statistics descriptor (\'speech\'/\'unknown\')**

Definition: specifies characteristics of the source of submitted SDUs.

Editor\'s note: The number of different source statistics descriptors
that should be allowed is FFS.

\[Purpose: Conversational speech has a well-known statistical behaviour
(or the discontinuous transmission (DTX) factor). By being informed that
the SDUs for a UMTS bearer are generated by a speech source, RAN, the
SGSN and the GGSN and also the UE may, based on experience, calculate a
statistical multiplex gain for use in admission control on the relevant
interfaces.\]

**Signalling Indication (Yes/No)**

Definition: Indicates the signalling nature of the submitted SDUs. This
attribute is additional to the other QoS attributes and does not
over-ride them. This attribute is only defined for the interactive
traffic class. If signalling indication is set to \'Yes\', the UE should
set the traffic handling priority to \'1\'.

\[Purpose: Signalling traffic can have different characteristics to
other interactive traffic, e.g. higher priority, lower delay and
increased peakiness. This attribute permits enhancing the RAN operation
accordingly. An example use of the Signalling Indication is for IMS
signalling traffic.\]

NOTE: This indication is sent by the UE in the QoS IE.

**Evolved Allocation/Retention Priority**

Definition: Enhances the Allocation/Retention Priority attribute with an
increased value range of the priority level and additional information
about the pre-emption capability and the pre-emption vulnerability of
the bearer. The pre-emption capability information defines whether a
bearer with a lower priority level should be dropped to free up the
required resources. The pre-emption vulnerability information whether a
bearer is applicable for such dropping by a pre-emption capable bearer
with a higher priority value.

### 6.4.3.2 Attributes discussed per traffic class

**Conversational class**

If the UMTS bearer carries speech service, **Source statistics
descriptor** can be set, which allows UMTS to calculate a statistical
multiplexing gain in core network, RAN and UE and use that for admission
control.

The support for SRVCC requires conversational class and Source
statistics descriptor set to speech only be used for IMS speech sessions
in accordance to TS 23.216 \[11\].

NOTE: Triggering SRVCC will cause service interruption and/or
inconsistent service experience when using conversational class and
Source statistics descriptor set to speech for non-IMS services.

Although the bitrate of a conversational source codec may vary,
conversational traffic is assumed to be relatively non‑bursty.
**Maximum** **bitrate** specifies the upper limit of the bitrate with
which the UMTS bearer delivers SDUs at the SAPs. The UMTS bearer is not
required to transfer traffic exceeding the **Guaranteed** **bitrate**.
Maximum and guaranteed bitrate attributes are used for resource
allocation within UMTS. Minimum resource requirement is determined by
guaranteed bitrate (When a conversational source generates less traffic
than allocated for the bearer, the unused resources can of course be
used by other bearers).

Since the traffic is non-bursty, it is meaningful to guarantee a
**transfer delay** of an arbitrary SDU.

Conversational bearers are likely to be realised in RAN without RLC
re-transmissions. Hence, RAN transport is more efficient and thereby
cheaper if RLC PDU size is adapted to UMTS bearer SDU size (RLC
transparent mode). This motivates the use of **SDU format information**.
The SDU periodicity knowledge needed to operate in RLC transparent mode
is obtained through dividing the largest defined SDU format by Maximum
bitrate. This shall be considered when setting the attribute values in a
service request.

The **Maximum SDU size** is only applicable if **SDU format
information** is not specified and is used for admission control and
policing and/or optimising transport. If **Maximum SDU size** is
specified the SDU size is variable. If **SDU format information** is
specified, with one or several possible sizes, each SDU shall exactly
conform to one of the specified sizes. By using the **SDU error ratio**,
**Residual bit error ratio** and **Delivery of erroneous SDUs**
attribute, the application requirement on error rate can be specified,
as well as whether the application wants UMTS to detect and discard SDUs
containing errors and an adequate forward error correction means can be
selected.

**Streaming class**

If the UMTS bearer carries streaming speech service, **Source statistics
descriptor** can be set, which allows UMTS to calculate a statistical
multiplexing gain in core network, RAN and UE and use that for admission
control.

As for conversational class, streaming traffic is assumed to be rather
non-bursty. **Maximum bitrate** specifies the upper limit of the bitrate
the UMTS bearer delivers SDUs at the SAPs. The UMTS bearer is not
required to transfer traffic exceeding the Guaranteed bitrate. Maximum
and guaranteed bitrate attributes are used for resource allocation
within UMTS. Minimum resource requirement is determined by guaranteed
bitrate. (When a streaming source generates less traffic than allocated
for the bearer, the unused resources can of course be used by other
bearers.)

Since the traffic is non-bursty, it is meaningful to guarantee a
**transfer delay** of an arbitrary SDU.

The transfer delay requirements for streaming are typically in a range
where at least in a part of this range RLC re‑transmission may be used.
It is assumed that the application\'s requirement on delay variation is
expressed through the transfer delay attribute, which implies that there
is no need for an explicit delay variation attribute.

It shall be possible for Streaming bearers to be realised in RAN without
RLC re-transmissions. Hence, RAN transport is more efficient and thereby
cheaper if RLC PDU size is adapted to UMTS bearer SDU size (RLC
transparent mode). This motivates the use of **SDU format information**.
The SDU periodicity knowledge needed to operate in RLC transparent mode
is obtained through dividing the largest defined SDU format by Maximum
bitrate. This shall be considered when setting the attribute values in a
service request.

The **Maximum SDU size** is only applicable if **SDU format
information** is not specified and is used for admission control and
policing and/or optimising transport. If **Maximum SDU size** is
specified the SDU size is variable. If **SDU format information** is
specified, with one or several possible sizes, each SDU shall exactly
conform to one of the specified sizes.

By using the **SDU error ratio**, **Residual bit error ratio** and
**Delivery of erroneous SDUs** attribute, the application requirement on
error rate can be specified, as well as whether the application wants
UMTS to detect and discard SDUs containing errors.

**Interactive class**

This bearer class is optimised for transport of human or machine
interaction with remote equipment, such as web browsing. The source
characteristics are unknown but may be bursty.

To be able to limit the delivered data rate for applications and
external networks by traffic conditioning, **maximum bitrate** is
included.

There is a definite need to differentiate between quality for bearers
within the interactive class. One alternative would be to set absolute
guarantees on delay, bitrate etc, which however at present seems complex
to implement within RAN/CN. Instead, **traffic handling priority** is
used. SDUs of a UMTS bearer with higher traffic handling priority is
given priority over SDUs of other bearers within the interactive class,
through UMTS-internal scheduling.

It is principally impossible to combine this relative approach with
attributes specifying delay, bitrate, packet loss etc, so an interactive
bearer gives no quality guarantees, and the actual bearer quality will
depend on the load of the system and the admission control policy of the
network operator.

The only additional attribute that is reasonable to specify is the bit
integrity of the delivered data, which is given by **SDU error ratio**,
**Residual bit error ratio** and **Delivery of erroneous SDUs**. Because
there are no reserved resources for interactive class, SDU error ratio
should be used as a target value. SDU error ratio cannot be guaranteed
under abnormal load conditions.

If the **Signalling Indication** is set, a statistical multiplexing gain
and/or improvements in signalling speed may be obtained within the
UTRAN.

**Background class**

The background class is optimised for machine-to-machine communication
that is not delay sensitive, such as messaging services. Background
applications tolerate a higher delay than applications using the
interactive class, which is the main difference between the background
and interactive classes.

UMTS only transfers background class SDUs when there is definite spare
capacity in the network. To be able to limit the delivered data rate for
applications and external networks by traffic conditioning, **maximum
bitrate** is included.

No other guarantee than bit integrity in the delivered data, given by
**SDU error ratio**, **Residual bit error ratio** and **Delivery of
erroneous SDUs** , is needed. Because there are no reserved resources
for background class, SDU error ratio should be used as a target value.
SDU error ratio cannot be guaranteed under abnormal load conditions.

### 6.4.3.3 UMTS bearer attributes: summary

In table 2, the defined UMTS bearer attributes and their relevancy for
each bearer traffic class are summarised. Observe that traffic class is
an attribute itself.

Table 2: UMTS bearer attributes defined for each bearer traffic class

  --------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----------------- ------------------- ------------------
  Traffic class                           Conversational class   Streaming class   Interactive class   Background class
  Maximum bitrate                         X                      X                 X                   X
  Delivery order                          X                      X                 X                   X
  Maximum SDU size                        X                      X                 X                   X
  SDU format information                  X                      X                                     
  SDU error ratio                         X                      X                 X                   X
  Residual bit error ratio                X                      X                 X                   X
  Delivery of erroneous SDUs              X                      X                 X                   X
  Transfer delay                          X                      X                                     
  Guaranteed bit rate                     X                      X                                     
  Traffic handling priority                                                        X                   
  Allocation/Retention priority           X                      X                 X                   X
  Source statistics descriptor            X                      X                                     
  Signalling indication                                                            X                   
  Evolved Allocation/Retention priority   X                      X                 X                   X
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----------------- ------------------- ------------------

### 6.4.4 Radio Access Bearer Service Attributes

Radio Access Bearer Service Attributes shall be applied to both CS and
PS domains.

### 6.4.4.1 List of attributes

**Traffic class (\'conversational\', \'streaming\', \'interactive\',
\'background\')**

Definition: type of application for which the Radio Access Bearer
service is optimised.

\[Purpose: By including the traffic class itself as an attribute, RAN
can make assumptions about the traffic source and optimise the transport
for that traffic type. In particular, buffer allocation may be based on
traffic class.\]

**Maximum bitrate (kbps)**

Definition: maximum number of bits delivered by RAN and to RAN at a SAP
within a period of time, divided by the duration of the period. The
traffic is conformant with the Maximum bitrate as long as it follows a
token bucket algorithm where token rate equals Maximum bitrate and
bucket size equals Maximum SDU size.

The conformance definition should not be interpreted as a required
implementation algorithm. The token bucket algorithm is described in
annex B.

The Maximum bitrate is the upper limit a user or application can accept
or provide. All RAB attributes may be fulfilled for traffic up to the
Maximum bitrate depending on the network conditions.

\[Purpose: 1) to limit the delivered bitrate to applications or external
networks with such limitations, 2) to allow maximum wanted RAB bitrate
to be defined for applications able to operate with different rates
(e.g. applications with adapting codecs.)\]

**Guaranteed bitrate (kbps)**

Definition: guaranteed number of bits delivered at a SAP within a period
of time (provided that there is data to deliver), divided by the
duration of the period. The traffic is conformant with the Guaranteed
bitrate as long as it follows a token bucket algorithm where token rate
equals Guaranteed bitrate and bucket size equals Maximum SDU size.

The conformance definition should not be interpreted as a required
implementation algorithm. The token bucket algorithm is described in
annex B.

RAB attributes, e.g. delay and reliability attributes, are guaranteed
for traffic up to the Guaranteed bitrate. For the traffic exceeding the
Guaranteed bitrate the RAB attributes are not guaranteed.

\[Purpose: Describes the bitrate the RAB shall guarantee to the user or
application. Guaranteed bitrate may be used to facilitate admission
control based on available resources, and for resource allocation within
RAN.. The guaranteed bitrate at the RAB level may be different from that
on UMTS bearer level, for example due to header compression.\]

**Delivery order (y/n)**

Definition: indicates whether the UMTS bearer shall provide in-sequence
SDU delivery or not.

\[Purpose: specifies if out-of-sequence SDUs are acceptable or not. This
information cannot be extracted from the traffic class. Whether
out-of-sequence SDUs are dropped or re-ordered depends on the specified
reliability.\]

NOTE: Delivery order should be set to \'no\' for PDP Type = \'IPv4\' or
\'IPv6\'.

**Maximum SDU size (octets)**

Definition: the maximum SDU size for which the network shall satisfy the
negotiated QoS.

\[Purpose: The maximum SDU size is used for admission control and
policing and/or optimising transport (optimized transport in for example
the RAN may be dependent on the size of the packets). Handling by the
network of packets larger than Maximum SDU size is implementation
specific (e.g. they may be dropped or forwarded with decreased QoS).\]

**SDU format information (bits)**

Definition: list of possible exact sizes of SDUs. If unequal error
protection shall be used by a Radio Access Bearer service, SDU format
information defines the exact subflow format of the SDU payload. SDU
format information also supports definition of allowed subflow bitrates.

NOTE 1: SDU format information is used by RAN to define which bits of
the payload that belongs to each subflow. Exact syntax of SDU format
information attribute is the task of RAN WG3.

\[Purpose: RAN needs SDU format information to be able to operate in
transparent RLC protocol mode, which is beneficial to spectral
efficiency and delay when RLC re-transmission is not used. Thus, if the
application can specify SDU sizes, the bearer is less expensive.
Moreover, in case of unequal error protection, RAN needs to know the
exact format of SDU payload to be able to demultiplex the SDU onto
different radio bearer services. When rate control is applied to
services having a constant SDU size, e.g. CS data, the subflow bitrate
is used to calculate the allowed inter PDU transmission interval
(IPTI).\]

**SDU error ratio**

Definition: Indicates the fraction of SDUs lost or detected as
erroneous. SDU error ratio is defined only for conforming traffic. In
case of unequal error protection., SDU error ratio is set per subflow
and represents the error ratio in each subflow. SDU error ratio is only
set for subflows for which error detection is requested.

NOTE 2: By reserving resources, SDU error ratio performance is
independent of the loading conditions, whereas without reserved
resources, such as in Interactive and Background classes, SDU error
ratio is used as target value.

\[Purpose: Used to configure protocols, algorithms and error detection
schemes, primarily within RAN.\]

**Residual bit error ratio**

Definition: Indicates the undetected bit error ratio for each subflow in
the delivered SDUs. For equal error protection, only one value is
needed. If no error detection is requested for a subflow, Residual bit
error ratio indicates the bit error ratio in that subflow of the
delivered SDUs.

\[Purpose: Used to configure radio interface protocols, algorithms and
error detection coding. For services requiring unequal error protection,
residual bit error ratio is given for each subflow.\]

**Delivery of erroneous SDUs (y/n/-)**

Definition: Indicates whether SDUs with detected errors shall be
delivered or not. In case of unequal error protection, the attribute is
set per subflow.

NOTE 3: \'yes\' implies that error detection is employed and that
erroneous SDUs are delivered together with an error indication, \'no\'
implies that error detection is employed and that erroneous SDUs are
discarded, and \'-\' implies that SDUs are delivered without considering
error detection.

In case of unequal protection, different subflows may have different
settings. Whenever there is a detected error in a subflow with \'no\',
the SDU is discarded, irrespective of settings in other subflows. For an
SDU with multiple subflows with a \'yes\' setting, there may be one
error indication per subflow, or, if there is only one error indication
per SDU, it indicates that an error was detected in at least one of
these subflows. Exact definitions are the task of RAN3.

\[Purpose: Used to decide whether error detection is needed and whether
frames with detected errors shall be forwarded or discarded.\]

**Transfer delay (ms)**

Definition: Indicates maximum delay for 95^th^ percentile of the
distribution of delay for all delivered SDUs during the lifetime of a
bearer service, where delay for an SDU is defined as the time from a
request to transfer an SDU at one SAP to its delivery at the other SAP.

\[Purpose: permits the derivation of the RAN part of the total transfer
delay for the UMTS bearer. In conjunction with the SDU error ratio
attribute, care needs to be taken in deriving the value for the 95th
percentile when an application desires, for example, that 99.9% of all
transmitted packets are delivered within a certain time. This attribute
allows RAN to set transport formats and ARQ parameters.\]

**Traffic handling priority**

Definition: specifies the relative importance for handling of all SDUs
belonging to the radio access bearer compared to the SDUs of other
bearers.

\[Purpose: Within the interactive class, there is a definite need to
differentiate between bearer qualities. This is handled by using the
traffic handling priority attribute, to allow RAN to schedule traffic
accordingly. By definition, priority is an alternative to absolute
guarantees, and thus these two attribute types cannot be used together
for a single bearer.\]

**Allocation/Retention Priority**

Definition: specifies the relative importance compared to other Radio
access bearers for allocation and retention of the Radio access bearer.
For PS services the Allocation/Retention Priority attribute of the Radio
access bearer is derived from the UMTS bearer service attributes
Allocation/Retention Priority. Other attributes may be used in addition.
For CS services the Allocation/Retention Priority attribute of the Radio
access bearer is derived from the eMLPP priority level attribute
(TS 23.067 \[9\]) and/or the CS Allocation/Retention Priority attribute
(TS 23.008 \[8\]) and/or the Mobile Station Category attribute
(TS 23.008 \[8\]) (which is only available for subscribers in their home
PLMN). Other attributes may be used in addition.

NOTE 4: The parameter is not negotiated from the mobile terminal. The
addition of a user-controlled Allocation/Retention Priority attribute is
for further study in future releases.

\[Purpose: Priority is used for differentiating between bearers when
performing allocation and retention of a bearer. In situations where
resources are scarce, the relevant network elements can use the
Allocation/Retention Priority to prioritize bearers with a high
Allocation/Retention Priority over bearers with a low
Allocation/Retention Priority when performing admission control.\]

**Source statistics descriptor (\'speech\'/\'unknown\')**

Definition: specifies characteristics of the source of submitted SDUs.

\[Purpose: Conversational speech has a well-known statistical behaviour
(or the discontinuous transmission (DTX) factor). By being informed that
the SDUs for a RAB are generated by a speech source, RAN may, based on
experience, calculate a statistical multiplex gain for use in admission
control on the radio and RAN Access interfaces.\]

**Signalling Indication (Yes/No)**

Definition: Indicates the signalling nature of the submitted SDUs. This
attribute is additional to the other QoS attributes and does not
over-ride them.

\[Purpose: Signalling traffic can have different characteristics to
other interactive traffic, e.g. higher priority, lower delay and
increased peakiness. This attribute permits enhancing the RAN operation
accordingly. An example use of the Signalling Indication is for IMS
signalling traffic. \]

### 6.4.4.2 Attributes discussed per traffic class

**Conversational class**

If the RAB carries a speech service, **Source statistics descriptor**
can be set, which allows RAN to calculate a statistical multiplexing
gain on radio and RAN Access interfaces and use that for admission
control.

The support for SRVCC requires conversational class and Source
statistics descriptor set to speech only be used for IMS speech sessions
in accordance to TS 23.216 \[11\].

NOTE: Triggering SRVCC will cause service interruption and/or
inconsistent service experience when using conversational class and
Source statistics descriptor set to speech for non-IMS services.

Unequal error protection can be supported in conversational class. In
case unequal error protection is requested for a given RAB, the
attributes Delivery of erroneous SDUs, Residual bit error ratio and SDU
error ratio are specified per subflow**. Delivery of erroneous SDUs**
determines whether error detection shall be used and, if so, whether
SDUs with error in a certain subflow shall be delivered or not.
**Residual bit error ratio** specifies the bit error ratio for
undetected delivered bits. **SDU error ratio** specifies the fraction of
SDUs with detected error in each subflow. It is only set for subflows
for which error detection is requested.

In case of unequal error protection the payload of the user data SDU,
transported by the Radio Access Bearer Service, shall conform to a SDU
format defined with possible exact sizes. The payload bits are
statically structured into subflows. The **SDU format information**
attribute defines the exact subflow format of SDU payload.

RAN includes a rate control protocol, making it able of controlling the
rate of sources requesting this, provided that they are periodic and
that **SDU format information** is specified. RAN is allowed to control
the rate between **Guaranteed bitrate** and **Maximum bitrate**. Each of
these two rates shall correspond to an SDU format specified in **SDU
format information**. For the case the SDU size is constant, as is the
case for CS data, SDU format information may include a list of possible
bitrates per subflow, to allow rate control of the subflows by change of
inter PDU transmission interval (IPTI).

**Streaming class**

If the RAB carries streaming speech, **Source statistics descriptor**
can be set, which allows RAN to calculate a statistical multiplexing
gain on radio and RAN Access interfaces and use that for admission
control.

Unequal error protection can be supported in streaming class. In case
unequal error protection is requested for a given RAB, the attributes
Delivery of erroneous SDUs, Residual bit error ratio and SDU error ratio
are specified per subflow**. Delivery of erroneous SDUs** determines
whether error detection shall be used and, if so, whether SDUs with
error in a certain subflow shall be delivered or not. **Residual bit
error ratio** specifies the bit error ratio for undetected delivered
bits. **SDU error ratio** specifies the fraction of SDUs with detected
error in each subflow. It is only set for subflows for which error
detection is requested.

In case of unequal error protection the payload of the user data SDU,
transported by the Radio Access Bearer Service, shall conform to a SDU
format defined with possible exact sizes. The payload bits are
statically structured into subflows. The **SDU format information**
attribute defines the exact subflow format of SDU payload.

RAN includes a rate control protocol, making it able of controlling the
rate of sources requesting this, provided that they are periodic and
that **SDU format information** is specified. RAN is allowed to control
the rate between **Guaranteed bitrate** and **Maximum bitrate**. Each of
these two rates shall correspond to an SDU format specified in **SDU
format information**. For the case the SDU size is constant, as is the
case for CS data, SDU format information may include a list of possible
bitrates per subflow, to allow rate control of the subflows by change of
inter PDU transmission interval (IPTI).

**Other classes**

The RAB attribute sets and their use in, interactive and background
classes are identical to those of UMTS bearer services (clause 6.4.2.2).

### 6.4.4.3 Radio Access Bearer attributes: summary

In table 3, the defined Radio Access Bearer attributes and their
relevancy for each bearer traffic class are summarised. Observe that
traffic class is an attribute itself.

Table 3: Radio Access Bearer attributes defined for each bearer traffic
class

  -------------------------------- ---------------------- ----------------- ------------------- ------------------
  Traffic class                    Conversational class   Streaming class   Interactive class   Background class
  Maximum bitrate                  X                      X                 X                   X
  Delivery order                   X                      X                 X                   X
  Maximum SDU size                 X                      X                 X                   X
  SDU format information           X                      X                                     
  SDU error ratio                  X                      X                 X                   X
  Residual bit error ratio         X                      X                 X                   X
  Delivery of erroneous SDUs       X                      X                 X                   X
  Transfer delay                   X                      X                                     
  Guaranteed bit rate              X                      X                                     
  Traffic handling priority                                                 X                   
  Allocation/ Retention priority   X                      X                 X                   X
  Source statistics descriptor     X                      X                                     
  Signalling Indication                                                     X                   
  -------------------------------- ---------------------- ----------------- ------------------- ------------------

### 6.4.5 Radio Bearer Service Attributes

NOTE: Defining the radio bearer service attributes is a task for RAN
WG2.

### 6.4.6 RAN Access Bearer Service Attributes

The RAN Access-Bearer Service together with the Physical Bearer Service
provides the transport between RAN and CN. RAN Access bearer services
for packet traffic shall provide different bearer services for variety
of QoS. It is operators\' option which of QoS capabilities in Frame
Relay layer, in IP layer or in ATM layer is used. For IP based RAN
Access bearer services, Differentiated Services defined by IETF shall be
used. If operator choose ATM-SVC as an internal dedicated transport
bearer, inter operation with IP based networks will be based on
Differentiated Services. The mapping from UMTS QoS classes to Diffserv
codepoints will be controlled by the operator. The mapping depends on
bandwidth and provisioning of resources among the different Diffserv
classes which the operators control to satisfy their cost and
performance requirements. Interoperability between operators will be
based on the use of service level agreements (SLAs) which are an
integral part of the Diffserv Architecture.

### 6.4.7 Core Network Bearer Service Attributes

The UMTS packet core network shall support different backbone bearer
services for variety of QoS. It is operators\' option which of QoS
capabilities in IP layer or QoS capabilities in ATM layer is used. For
the IP based backbone, Differentiated Services defined by IETF shall be
used. If operator choose ATM-SVC as an internal dedicated transport
bearer, interoperation with IP based backbone networks will be based on
Differentiated Services. The mapping from UMTS QoS classes to Diffserv
codepoints will be controlled by the operator. The mapping depends on
bandwidth and provisioning of resources among the different Diffserv
classes which the operators control to satisfy their cost and
performance requirements. Interoperability between operators will be
based on the use of service level agreements (SLAs) which are an
integral part of the Diffserv Architecture.

6.5 Attribute Value Ranges
--------------------------

For UMTS Bearer service and Radio Access Bearer services a list of
finite attribute values or the allowed value range is defined for each
attribute. The value list/value range defines the values that are
possible to be used for an attribute considering every possible service
condition. When a service is defined as a combination of attributes,
further limitations may apply; for example the shortest possible delay
may not be possible to use together with the lowest possible SDU error
ratio. Service requirements, i.e. required QoS and performance for a
given UMTS service is defined in the service requirement specifications
TS 22.105 \[5\]. The aspect of future proof coding of attributes in
protocol specifications is not considered in the defined value
list/value range tables.

### 6.5.1 Ranges of UMTS Bearer Service Attributes

The following table lists the value ranges of the UMTS bearer service
attributes. The value ranges reflect the capability of UMTS network.

Table 4: Value ranges for UMTS Bearer Service Attributes

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Traffic     | Con         | Streaming   | Interactive | Background  |
| class       | versational | class       | class       | class       |
|             | class       |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     | \<= 10 (2)  | \<= 10 (2)  | \<= 10 (2)  | \<= 10 (2)  |
| bitrate     |             |             |             |             |
| (Gbps)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Delivery    | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      |
| order       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum SDU | \<=1 500 or | \<=1 500 or | \<=1 500 or | \<=1 500 or |
| size        | 1 502 (4)   | 1 502 (4)   | 1 502 (4)   | 1 502 (4)   |
| (octets)    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| SDU format  | \(5\)       | \(5\)       |             |             |
| information |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Delivery of | Yes/No/-    | Yes/No/-    | Yes/No/-    | Yes/No/-    |
| erroneous   | (6)         | (6)         | (6)         | (6)         |
| SDUs        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Residual    | 5\*10^-2^,  | 5\*10^-2^,  | 4\*10^-3^,  | 4\*10^-3^,  |
| BER         | 10^-2^,     | 10^-2^,     | 10^-5^,     | 10^-5^,     |
|             | 5\*10^-3^,  | 5\*10^-3^,  | 6\*10^-8^   | 6\*10^-8^   |
|             | 10^-3^,     | 10^-3^,     | (7)         | (7)         |
|             | 10^-4^,     | 10^-4^,     |             |             |
|             | 10^-5^,     | 10^-5^,     |             |             |
|             | 10^-6^      | 10^-6^      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| SDU error   | 10^-2^,     | 10^-1^,     | 10^-3^,     | 10^-3^,     |
| ratio       | 7\*10^-3^,  | 10^-2^,     | 10^-4^,     | 10^-4^,     |
|             | 10^-3^,     | 7\*10^-3^,  | 10^-6^      | 10^-6^      |
|             | 10^-4^,     | 10^-3^,     |             |             |
|             | 10^-5^      | 10^-4^,     |             |             |
|             |             | 10^-5^      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Transfer    | 100 --      | 300 (8) --  |             |             |
| delay (ms)  | maximum     | maximum     |             |             |
|             | value       | value       |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Guaranteed  | \<= 10 (2)  | \<= 10 (2)  |             |             |
| bit rate    |             |             |             |             |
| (Gbps)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Traffic     |             |             | 1,2,3 (9)   |             |
| handling    |             |             |             |             |
| priority    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Allocatio   | 1,2,3       | 1,2,3       | 1,2,3       | 1,2,3       |
| n/Retention |             |             |             |             |
| priority    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Source      | Spe         | Spe         |             |             |
| statistic   | ech/unknown | ech/unknown |             |             |
| descriptor  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Signalling  |             |             | Yes/No (9)  |             |
| Indication  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Evolved     | 1-15        | 1-15        | 1-15        | 1-15        |
| Allocatio   |             |             |             |             |
| n/Retention | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      |
| priority    |             |             |             |             |
|             | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      |
| \- Priority |             |             |             |             |
| Level       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| \-          |             |             |             |             |
| Pre-emption |             |             |             |             |
| Capability  |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| \-          |             |             |             |             |
| Pre-emption |             |             |             |             |
| Vu          |             |             |             |             |
| lnerability |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

1\) Void.

2\) The value represents the protocol limit but not necessarily the
system limit. The granularity of the bitrate the information element can
represent varies across the whole range.

3\) Void.

4\) In case of PDP type = PPP, maximum SDU size is 1502 octets. In other
cases, maximum SDU size is 1 500 octets.

5\) Definition of possible values of exact SDU sizes for which RAN can
support transparent RLC protocol mode, is the task of RAN WG3.

6\) If *Delivery of erroneous SDUs* is set to \'Yes\' error indications
can only be provided on the MT/TE side of the UMTS bearer. On the CN
Gateway side error indications can not be signalled outside of UMTS
network in release 1999.

7\) Values are derived from CRC lengths of 8, 16 and 24 bits on layer 1.

8\) If the UE requests a transfer delay value lower than the minimum
value, this shall not cause the network (SGSN and GGSN) to reject the
request from the UE. The network may negotiate the value for the
transfer delay.

9\) If signalling indication is set to \'Yes\', the UE should set the
traffic handling priority to \'1\'.

### 6.5.2 Ranges of Radio Access Bearer Service Attributes for UTRAN and for GERAN

The following table lists the value ranges of the radio access bearer
service attributes for UTRAN and for GERAN. The value ranges reflect the
capability of both UTRAN and GERAN.

Table 5: Value ranges for Radio Access Bearer Service Attributes for
UTRAN and for GERAN

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Traffic     | Con         | Streaming   | Interactive | Background  |
| class       | versational | class       | class       | class       |
|             | class       |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     | \<= 10 (2)  | \<= 10 (2)  | \<= 10 (2)  | \<= 10 (2)  |
| bitrate     | (7)         | (7)         | (7)         | (7)         |
| (Gbps)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Delivery    | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      |
| order       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum SDU | \<=1 500 or | \<=1 500 or | \<=1 500 or | \<=1 500 or |
| size        | 1 502 (4)   | 1 502 (4)   | 1 502 (4)   | 1 502 (4)   |
| (octets)    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| SDU format  | \(5\)       | \(5\)       |             |             |
| information |             |             |             |             |
| (1)         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Delivery of | Yes/No/-    | Yes/No/-    | Yes/No/-    | Yes/No/-    |
| erroneous   |             |             |             |             |
| SDUs        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Residual    | 5\*10^-2^,  | 5\*10^-2^,  | 4\*10^-3^,  | 4\*10^-3^,  |
| BER         | 10^-2^,     | 10^-2^,     | 10^-5^,     | 10^-5^,     |
|             | 5\*10^-3^,  | 5\*10^-3^,  | 6\*10^-8^   | 6\*10^-8^   |
|             | 10^-3^,     | 10^-3^,     | (6)         | (6)         |
|             | 10^-4^,     | 10^-4^,     |             |             |
|             | 10^-5^,     | 10^-5^,     |             |             |
|             | 10^-6^      | 10^-6^      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| SDU error   | 10^-2^,     | 10^-1^,     | 10^-3^,     | 10^-3^,     |
| ratio       | 7\*10^-3^,  | 10^-2^,     | 10^-4^,     | 10^-4^,     |
|             | 10^-3^,     | 7\*10^-3^,  | 10^-6^      | 10^-6^      |
|             | 10^-4^,     | 10^-3^,     |             |             |
|             | 10^-5^      | 10^-4^,     |             |             |
|             |             | 10^-5^      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Transfer    | 80 --       | 250 --      |             |             |
| delay (ms)  | maximum     | maximum     |             |             |
|             | value       | value       |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Guaranteed  | \<= 10 (2)  | \<= 10 (2)  |             |             |
| bit rate    | (7)         | (7)         |             |             |
| (Gbps)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Traffic     |             |             | 1,2,3       |             |
| handling    |             |             |             |             |
| priority    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Allocatio   | 1,2, \...,  | 1,2, \...,  | 1,2, \...,  | 1,2, \...,  |
| n/Retention | 15          | 15          | 15          | 15          |
| priority    |             |             |             |             |
| (1)         | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| \- Priority | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      | Yes/No      |
| Level       |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| \-          |             |             |             |             |
| Pre-emption |             |             |             |             |
| Capability  |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| \-          |             |             |             |             |
| Pre-emption |             |             |             |             |
| Vu          |             |             |             |             |
| lnerability |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Source      | Spe         | Spe         |             |             |
| statistic   | ech/unknown | ech/unknown |             |             |
| descriptor  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Signalling  |             |             | Yes/No      |             |
| Indication  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

1\) This parameter is limited to the values 1, 2 and 3 for GERAN when
the Gb Bearer Service is used and the pre-emption capability and
vulnerability information is not used.

2\) The value represents the protocol limit but not necessarily the
system limit. The granularity of the bitrate the information element can
represent varies across the whole range.

3\) Void.

4\) In case of PDP type = PPP, maximum SDU size is 1502 octets. In other
cases, maximum SDU size is 1 500 octets.

5\) Definition of possible values of exact SDU sizes for which UTRAN can
support transparent RLC protocol mode, is the task of RAN WG3.

6\) Values are derived from CRC lengths of 8, 16 and 24 bits on layer 1.

7\) In case of GERAN the highest bitrate value is 473.6 kbps.

6.6 Bearer unrelated QoS Attributes
-----------------------------------

**APN-Aggregated Maximum Bit-rate (kbps)**

Definition: The APN-AMBR limits the aggregate bit rate that can be
expected to be provided across all Non GBR PDP contexts of the same APN
(e.g. excess traffic may get discarded by a rate shaping function). Each
of those Non GBR PDP contexts could potentially utilize the entire APN
AMBR, e.g. when the other Non GBR PDP contexts do not carry any traffic.
GBR PDP contexts are outside the scope of APN AMBR. The GGSN enforces
the APN AMBR in downlink. Enforcement of APN AMBR in uplink may be done
in the UE and additionally in the GGSN.

NOTE: All simultaneous active PDP contexts of a UE that are associated
with the same APN need to be connected to the same GGSN.

\[Purpose: The APN-AMBR can be used for a differentiation of users
regarding the bit rate they can experience.\]

**UE Aggregated Maximum Bit-rate (kbps)**

Definition: The UE AMBR limits the aggregate bit rate that can be
expected to be provided across all Non GBR PDP contexts of a UE (e.g.
excess traffic may get discarded by a rate shaping function). Each of
those Non GBR PDP contexts could potentially utilize the entire UE AMBR,
e.g. when the other Non GBR PDP contexts do not carry any traffic. GBR
(real-time) PDP contexts are outside the scope of UE AMBR. The RAN
enforces the UE AMBR in uplink and downlink.

\[Purpose: The UE AMBR can be used for limiting the overall bit rate a
UE can experience.\]

7 Void
======

8 QoS Attribute Mapping
=======================

NOTE: This clause shall contain information of attribute mapping i.e.
how attribute in different levels of QoS (from external world and within
UMTS network) shall be mapped. Current clause division is based on an
assumption that levels of QoS presented in clause 6, but they are open
to discussions.

8.1 From Application Attributes to UMTS Bearer Service Attributes
-----------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: This is an operator and/or implementation issue.

8.2 From UMTS Bearer Service Attributes to Radio Access Bearer Service Attributes
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When establishing a UMTS bearer and the underlying Radio Access Bearer
for support of a service request, some attribute on UMTS level does
typically not have the same value as corresponding attribute on Radio
Access Bearer level. For example requested transfer delay for the UMTS
bearer shall typically be larger that the requested transfer delay for
the Radio Access Bearer, as the transport through the core network will
use a part of the acceptable delay.

For the following attributes/settings the attribute value for the UMTS
bearer will normally be the same as the corresponding attribute value
for the Radio Access Bearer:

\- maximum bitrate;

\- delivery order;

\- delivery of erroneous SDUs;

NOTE 1: If *Delivery of erroneous SDUs* is set to \'Yes\' the handling
of error indications on UMTS Bearer level and Radio Access Bearer level
differs. Error indications can only be provided on the MT/TE side of the
UMTS bearer. On the CN Gateway side error indications can not be
signalled outside of UMTS network in release 1999. Error indications can
be provided on both end-points of the Radio Access Bearer.

\- guaranteed bit rate;

\- traffic handling priority;

\- maximum SDU size;

\- SDU format information.

NOTE 2: List of exact sizes of SDU\'s shall be the same, exact format of
SDU payload does not exist on UMTS Bearer level.

For the following attributes the attribute value for the UMTS bearer
will normally not be the same as the corresponding attribute value for
the Radio Access Bearer. The relation between the attribute values for
UMTS Bearer service and Radio Access Bearer service is implementation
dependent and depends for example on network dimensioning.

**- Residual BER** for Radio Access Bearer service shall be reduced with
the bit errors introduced in the core network, by Core Network Bearer
service.

**- SDU error ratio** for Radio Access Bearer service shall be reduced
with the errors introduced in the core network, by Core Network Bearer
service.

**- Transfer delay** for Radio Access Bearer service shall be reduced
with the delay introduced in the core network, e.g. on transmission
links or in a codec resident in the Core Network.

For the following attribute the value range for the UMTS bearer is not
the same as the corresponding attribute value ranges for the Radio
Access Bearer. The value for the Radio Access Bearer service attribute
shall be derived from the values of one or more UMTS bearer service
attributes:

\- For PS services the Allocation/Retention Priority shall be derived
from the UMTS bearer service attributes Allocation/Retention Priority.
Other attributes may be used in addition. For CS services the
Allocation/Retention Priority shall be derived from the eMLPP priority
level attribute and/or the CS Allocation/Retention Priority attribute
and/or the Mobile Station Category attribute (TS 23.008 \[8\]) (which is
only available for subscribers in their home PLMN). Other attributes may
be used in addition.

NOTE 3: The usage of other attributes can ensure that e.g. emergency
calls would receive an appropriate RAB Allocation/Retention Priority.

NOTE 4: To ensure backwards compatibility different values of an UMTS
bearer service attribute can be mapped to the same value of the RAB
Allocation/Retention Priority attribute if necessary.

NOTE 5: From Release 9 onwards, the UMTS bearer service attribute
Evolved Allocation/Retention Priority can be mapped directly to the of
the RAB Allocation/Retention Priority attribute.

The following attributes/settings only exist on the Radio Access Bearer
level:

**- SDU format information** - exact format of SDU payload is retrieved
from the codec integrated in the core network.

**- Source statistics descriptor** is set to speech if the Radio Access
Bearer transports compressed speech generated by the codec integrated in
the core network.

8.3 From UMTS Bearer Service Attributes to CN Bearer Service Attributes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: This is operator\'s choice.

9 Interworking
==============

The model for the UMTS QoS classes and attributes may not be any
existing network or QoS protocol/mechanisms as such. The main goal of
the specification is not to copy existing QoS mechanisms but rather to
create a future proof concept that will provide means to transport
different types of data with different QoS requirements. Thus the
interworking of UMTS and existing network technologies has to be
ensured. This clause presents the most common technologies that UMTS
shall be capable to interwork with.

9.1 UMTS-GSM CS/GPRS
--------------------

### 9.1.1 UMTS-GSM CS

The mapping between UMTS-GSM CS is based on GSM CS mechanisms and CC
parameters.

### 9.1.1.1 Handover from UMTS to GSM

In case a UMTS call is set up in the CN, the BC IEs are mapped into QoS
RAB attributes at call setup.

If the CN has to perform a handover towards GSM, the non-anchor MSC
needs to perform an assignment based on GSM specific traffic channel
attributes.

As the BSSMAP protocol is used over the E-interface and as no
appropriate procedure exists to map QoS attributes into BSSMAP
parameters, the anchor MSC shall map BC IEs into GSM traffic channel
parameters, according to existing GSM procedures for call setup.

This requires that the BC IE is coded according to GSM protocol
requirements, i.e. all those parameters not applicable to UMTS should
nevertheless be correctly specified by the UE in order to perform a
handover to GSM according the above specified principles.

### 9.1.1.2 Handover from GSM to UMTS

In case a GSM call is set up in the CN, the BC IEs are mapped into
channel type parameters at call setup.

If the CN has to perform a handover towards UMTS, the non-anchor MSC
needs to perform an assignment based on UMTS specific radio access
bearer attributes.

As the BSSMAP protocol is used over the E-interface, the non-anchor MSC
shall use the received Channel Type parameter (e.g. \'speech or data
indicator\', the type of data service (transparent/non-transparent) and
user rate) to derive the QoS RAB attributes.

### 9.1.2 UMTS-GPRS

This clause covers primarily the mapping of QoS attributes that are
necessary across standardised interfaces. In addition to these, there
are cases when mapping of QoS attributes are needed internal to a node.

GPRS Release 99 (R99) QoS attributes shall be equivalent to the UMTS QoS
Attributes. For interworking purposes between different releases,
mapping rules between GPRS Release 97/98 (R97/98) and GPRS Release 99
(R99) as well as UMTS are defined. Mapping shall occur whenever the UE,
the SGSN, the GGSN and the HLR nodes are of different releases R97/98 or
R99. The mapping is required in PDP context activation and modification
procedures and when a R99 HLR Insert Subscriber Data towards a R97/98
SGSN.

It is not within the scope of the present document to determine if any
value combinations of attribute values can not be supported. This means
that complete mapping rules are defined here, and if the user requests a
QoS profile which the network is not able to support (e.g. a low delay
and a high reliability), the decision if such a attribute combination
can be supported is left to admission control functionality within the
PDP context activation procedure, and the QoS for such a profile may be
renegotiated by the network based on the available resources.

The overall principle for the mapping between two profiles is that the
two profiles, applied in their respective network releases, give the
same or at least similar QoS. The GPRS R97/98 equipment will not be able
to provide realtime service corresponding to the R99 conversational and
streaming traffic classes. Therefore, the mapping is always to the
non-realtime interactive and background traffic classes.

The R97/R98 QoS attributes are described in
TS 03.60 Release 1998 \[10\].

### 9.1.2.1 General rules

Air interface Session Management and GTP messages of R99 shall contain
the R99 attributes as an extension of the R97/98 QoS Information Element
thus unnecessary mapping can be avoided. When a R97/98 MS is visiting a
GPRS R99 or UMTS SGSN and the GGSN is of R97/98 or R99, the visited SGSN
shall not perform any mapping of QoS attributes. In case of GGSN R99,
the GTP version 1 (R99) QoS profile only contains the R97/98 QoS
attributes. It can be noted that for this PDP Context a Traffic Flow
Template (TFT) can not be requested.

When a R99 UE is visiting a GPRS R99 or UMTS SGSN (or serving PLMN) and
the GGSN (or home PLMN) is of R97/98, the visited SGSN (or visited PLMN)
shall be capable of providing bearers having QoS support according to
R99. When a PDP Context is activated (mobile or network initiated)
mapping takes place in the serving SGSN.

For MS initiated PDP Context Activations as well as network initiated
PDP Context Activations, the home R97/98 GGSN will respond to the
activation request by returning a the QoS Negotiated Profile, which
contain the accepted and changed R97/98 attributes. A mapping of the
changed attributes into R99 attributes will be done in serving SGSN and
signalled to the UE in the Activate PDP Context Accept message.

It is a general mapping rule that returned and unchanged attributes
during negotiation procedures shall not be mapped a second time by
serving SGSN, i.e. the unchanged R99 attributes received in the Create
PDP Context Response message will be sent to UE in QoS Negotiated
Profile of the Activate PDP Context Accept message.

MAP message of R99 shall also contain the R99 attributes as an extension
of the R97/98 QoS Information Element when Insert Subscriber Data
message is sent to a R99 SGSN. In the case when a R99 HLR send a Insert
Subscriber Data message to a R97/98 SGSN, the message shall contain the
R97/98 QoS attributes. A R99 SGSN shall use the R99 attributes of
subscribed QoS profile when a R99 UE requests to use subscription data
in the PDP Context Activation. The R99 SGSN shall use the R97/98
attributes of subscribed QoS profile when a R97/98 MS requests to use
subscription data in the PDP Context Activation.

### 9.1.2.2 Determining R99 attributes from R97/98 attributes

This mapping is applicable in the following cases:

\- hand over of PDP Context from GPRS R97/98 SGSN to GPRS R99 or UMTS
SGSN;

\- PDP Context Activation in a serving R99 SGSN with a R97/98 GGSN. When
GGSN respond to the PDP Context Activation, mapping of the changed
R97/98 QoS attributes received from the GGSN to R99 QoS attributes is
performed in the serving SGSN.

This mapping is also applicable if a R99 UE allows an application to
request a PDP Context Activation with R97/98 QoS attributes, e.g. via AT
command.

Table 6: Rules for determining R99 attributes from R97/98 attributes

  --------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Resulting R99 Attribute                                   Derived from R97/98 Attribute                   
  Name                                                      Value                           Value           Name
  Traffic class                                             Interactive                     1, 2, 3         Delay class
                                                            Background                      4               
  Traffic handling priority                                 1                               1               Delay class
                                                            2                               2               
                                                            3                               3               
  SDU error ratio                                           10^-6^                          2               Reliability class
                                                            10^-4^                          3               
                                                            10^-3^                          4, 5            
  Residual bit error ratio                                  10^-5^                          2, 3, 4         Reliability class
                                                            4\*10^-3^                       5               
  Delivery of erroneous SDUs                                \'no\'                          2, 3, 4         Reliability class
                                                            \'yes\'                         5               
  Maximum bitrate \[kbps\]                                  8                               1               Peak throughput class
                                                            16                              2               
                                                            32                              3               
                                                            64                              4               
                                                            128                             5               
                                                            256                             6               
                                                            512                             7               
                                                            1024                            8               
                                                            2048                            9               
  Allocation/Retention priority                             1                               1               Precedence class
                                                            2                               2               
                                                            3                               3               
  Delivery order                                            yes\'                           yes\'           Reordering Required (Information in the SGSN and the GGSN PDP Contexts)
                                                            \'no\'                          \'no\'          
  Maximum SDU size                                          1 500 octets                    (Fixed value)   
  Priority Level of Evolved Allocation/Retention priority   1 to H                          1               Precedence class
                                                            H+1 to M                        2               
                                                            M+1 to 15                       3               
  --------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 1: As the allocation/retention priority attribute is not available
in the UE (see 6.4.4.1) the mapping of the allocation/retention priority
attribute is not relevant for the UE.

NOTE 2: The values of H (high priority) and M (medium priority) can be
set according to operator requirements to ensure proper treatment of
users with higher priority level information. The minimum value of H is
1. The minimum value of M is H+1.

As the reordering required attribute is not available in the MS the MS
should set the R99 delivery order attribute to the value \"no\" for PDP
Type = \"IPv4\" or \"IPv6\", otherwise the MS shall set the delivery
order attribute to the value \"subscribed\" (see TS 24.008 \[6\]).

### 9.1.2.3 Determining R97/98 attributes from R99 attributes

This mapping is applicable in the following cases:

\- PDP Context is handed over from GPRS R99 or UMTS to GPRS R97/98;

\- when a R99 UE perform a PDP Context Activation in a serving R99 SGSN
while the GGSN is of R97/98. In this case the SGSN shall perform mapping
of the R99 QoS attributes to the R97/98 QoS attributes;

\- a R99 HLR may need to map the stored subscribed QoS attributes in the
HLR subscriber data to R97/98 QoS attributes that are going to be sent
in the Insert Subscriber Data message from the R99 HLR to the R97/98 and
R99 SGSN. It is an implementation issue if the R97/98 QoS attributes are
stored in the HLR in addition to the R99 QoS attributes;

NOTE 1: UE handling for the case that a R99 UE (except UMTS only UE)
receives a request for a PDP Context Activation with R99 QoS attributes
via AT command, is implementation dependent.

Table 7: Rules for determining R97/98 attributes from R99 attributes

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Resulting      | Derived from   |                |                |
| R97/98         | R99 Attribute  |                |                |
| Attribute      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Name           | Value          | Value          | Name           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Delay class    | 1              | conversational | Traffic class  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1              | streaming      | Traffic class  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1              | Interactive    | Traffic class  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | 1              | Traffic        |
|                |                |                | handling       |
|                |                |                | priority       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2              | Interactive    | Traffic class  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | 2              | Traffic        |
|                |                |                | handling       |
|                |                |                | priority       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3              | Interactive    | Traffic class  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | 3              | Traffic        |
|                |                |                | handling       |
|                |                |                | priority       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 4              | Background     | Traffic class  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Reliability    | 3              | \<= 10^-5^     | SDU error      |
| class          |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | (NOTE 4)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3              | 10^-5^ \< x    | SDU error      |
|                |                | \<= 5\*10^-4^  | ratio          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 4              | \> 5\*10^-4^   | SDU error      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | \<= 2\*10^-4^  | Residual bit   |
|                |                |                | error ratio    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 5              | \> 5\*10^-4^   | SDU error      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | \> 2\*10^-4^   | Residual bit   |
|                |                |                | error ratio    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Peak           | 1              | \< 16          | Maximum        |
| throughput     |                |                | bitrate        |
| class          |                |                | \[kbps\]       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2              | 16 \<= x \< 32 |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3              | 32 \<= x \< 64 |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 4              | 64 \<= x \<    |                |
|                |                | 128            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 5              | 128 \<= x \<   |                |
|                |                | 256            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 6              | 256 \<= x \<   |                |
|                |                | 512            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 7              | 512 \<= x \<   |                |
|                |                | 1024           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 8              | 1024 \<= x \<  |                |
|                |                | 2048           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 9              | \>= 2048       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Precedence     | 1              | 1              | Alloca         |
| class          |                |                | tion/retention |
|                |                |                | priority       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2              | 2              |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3              | 3              |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Mean           | Always set to  | \-             |                |
| throughput     | 31             |                |                |
| class          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Reordering     | yes\'          | yes\'          | Delivery order |
| Required       |                |                |                |
| (Information   |                |                |                |
| in the SGSN    |                |                |                |
| and the GGSN   |                |                |                |
| PDP Contexts)  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \'no\'         | \'no\'         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Precedence     | 1              | 1              | Priority Level |
| class          |                |                | of the Evolved |
|                |                |                | Alloca         |
|                |                |                | tion/retention |
|                |                |                | priority       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2              | H+1            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3              | M+1            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

As the allocation/retention priority attribute is not available in the
UE (see 6.4.4.1) the UE shall set the R97/98 precedence class attribute
to the value \"subscribed\" (see TS 24.008 \[6\]).

NOTE 2: For asymmetric bearers, the higher value of the maximum bitrate
attributes for downlink and uplink is selected and used for the maximum
bitrate value.

NOTE 3: The values of H (high priority) and M (medium priority) can be
set according to operator requirements to ensure proper treatment of
users with higher priority level information. The minimum value of H is
1. The minimum value of M is H+1.

NOTE 4: To avoid interoperability issues with LLC acknowledged mode the
Reliability Class is set to \"3\" by the network in case the SDU error
ratio is \"\<= 10^‑5^\". The UE will receive both R97/98 and R99, or
only R97/98 (when UE is a pre-R99 UE) QoS attributes from the network of
this release.

9.2 UMTS-PSTN
-------------

PSTN does not have QoS mechanisms thus QoS attribute
interworking/mapping is not needed.

NOTE: The details are to be solved by CN WG3.

9.3 UMTS-ISDN
-------------

ISDN does not have QoS mechanisms thus QoS attribute
interworking/mapping is not needed. However, means for determining
required bandwidth, delay and reliability has to be developed. It is
simple in MO cases but in MT cases the mechanisms (or in worst case
defaults) have to be developed.

NOTE: The details are to be solved by CN WG3.

9.4 UMTS-Internet
-----------------

In the case of Internet applications, the selection of the class and
appropriate traffic attribute values is made according to the Internet
QoS attributes. Internet applications do not directly use the services
of UMTS but they use Internet QoS definitions and attributes, which are
mapped to UMTS QoS attributes at API. Currently there are two main
Internet QoS concepts, namely Integrated Services and Differentiated
Services. The mapping between Internet QoS and UMTS QoS is presented in
following clause.

IP based QoS models shall be supported for PDP contexts, meaning both
Integrated Services (IntServ) signalled by RSVP \[RFC 2205\] and
Differentiated Services (6-bit QoS attribute on each IP packet,
DiffServ). Both mechanisms are controlled by applications residing in
the TE, allowing different application specific QoS levels for the same
PDP context. The way application level QoS and UMTS level QoS interact
is detailed in TS 23.207 \[7\].

######## Annex A (informative): Error resilience in real-time packet multimedia payloads

A.1 Introduction
================

This annex provides some basic information with respect to the error
resilience of different encoded media streams when considering the
support of unequal error protection for real-time packet multimedia
services. It provides some indicative figures for the residual bit error
rates that could be tolerated by audio-visual H.323 payloads in a 3G
environment.

H.323 employs the H.225.0 packetisation scheme, which in turn uses
UDP/IP and RTP to transport each media stream. The structure of an H.323
packet is shown in figure A.1.

Figure A.1: Structure of H.323 packet

Figure A.2: Structure of compressed H.323 packet.\
Class 1 bits can tolerate medium BER; Class 2 bits can tolerate high BER

It is assumed that some elements of the H.323 header information, which
comprises the IP, UDP and RTP headers, can be compressed. It is also
assumed that this information will require reliable transmission, such
that any errors in the header will result in the loss of the complete
H.323 packet. However, for real-time multimedia streams that cannot
accommodate a large delay (and therefore packet retransmission), codecs
can be used that are tolerant to residual bit errors.

This annex highlights the error resilience of audio and visual codecs,
and provide some example tolerance figures for media streams of the type
that are likely to comprise H.323 payloads.

A.1.1 Factors affecting error resilience
----------------------------------------

Specific error resilience figures will depend on a number of factors,
including:

\- the media type;

\- the quality of service (QoS) required;

\- the specific codec used.

Media streams may also be sub-divided into different classes on the
basis of bit error sensitivity as shown in figure A.2. In some cases the
most sensitive bits may be protected by in-band checksum information. It
should also be noted that, in addition to the effect of residual bit
errors in the media stream, the QoS will be further degraded by packet
loss due to errors in the H.323 header.

A.2 Example figures
===================

The following values are indicative of the QoS attributes required by
audio and video media streams, including bit error rates (BER) and frame
erasure rates (FER).

For the purposes of example, figures are provided for the AMR speech
codec and the MPEG-4 video codec.

*AMR speech codec payload*

Bit rate: 4,75 - 12,2 kbit/s

Delay: end-to-end delay not to exceed 100ms (codec frame length is 20ms)

BER: 10^-4^ for Class 1 bits

10^-3^ for Class 2 bits

for some applications, a higher BER class (\~10^-2^) might be feasible.

**FER \< 0,5% (with graceful degradation for higher erasure rates)**

*MPEG-4 video payload:*

Bit rate: variable, average rate scalable from 24 to 128 kbit/s and
higher

Delay: end-to-end delay between 150 and 400ms

video codec delay is typically less than 200 ms

BER: 10^-6^ - no visible degradation

10^-5^ - little visible degradation

10^-4^ - some visible artefacts

\> 10^-3^ - limited practical application

**Packet loss rate FFS**

*Data and control:*

Data (data refers to other types than audio and video e.g. file
transfers, shared whiteboard) and control information shall be
transmitted reliably (i.e. residual bit errors should result in a lost
packet).

######## Annex B (normative): Reference Algorithm for Conformance Definition of Bitrate

The annex shows a reference algorithm for the conformance definition of
bitrate. This may be used for traffic contract between UMTS bearers and
external network/user equipment. It should be noted that the reference
algorithm will never imply a particular implementation for the traffic
conditioner.

The algorithm is well known as \"Token Bucket Algorithm\" which has been
described in IETF. Here, \"tokens\" represents the allowed data volume,
for example in byte. \"Tokens\" are given at a constant \"token rate\"
by a traffic contract, are stored temporarily in a \"token bucket\", and
are consumed by accepting the packet. This algorithm uses the following
two parameters (r and b) for the traffic contract and one variable (TBC)
for the internal usage.

\- r: token rate, (corresponds to the monitored Maximum
bitrate/Guaranteed bitrate).

\- b: bucket size, (the upper bound of TBC, corresponds to bounded burst
size).

\- TBC(Token bucket counter): the number of given/remained tokens at any
time.

In words, conformance according to a token bucket can be defined as:
\"Data is conformant if the amount of data submitted during any
arbitrarily chosen time period T does not exceed (b+rT)\".

The algorithm is described in the following.

Token bucket counter (TBC) is usually increased by \"r\" in each small
time unit. However, TBC has upper bound \"b\" and the value of TBC shall
never exceed \"b\".

When a packet \#i with length Li arrives, the receiver checks the
current TBC. If the TBC value is equal to or larger than Li, the packet
arrival is judged compliant, i.e., the traffic is conformant. At this
moment tokens corresponding to the packet length is consumed, and TBC
value decreases by Li.

When a packet \#j with length Lj arrives, if TBC is less than Lj, the
packet arrival is non-compliant, i.e., the traffic is not conformant. In
this case, the value of TBC is not updated.

Figure B.1: Operation example of the reference conformance algorithm

######## Annex C (normative): Determine which QoS profile is of highest QoS

In handovers from Release 1999 to GPRS Release 97/98 networks, it will
be necessary to determine which PDP context of a set of PDP contexts
provides the highest QoS, since, of a set of PDP contexts with the same
APN and PDP address, all PDP contexts except the one with the highest
QoS profile will be deactivated.

To determine which PDP context that has the highest QoS table C.1 is
used. Only the PDP context(s) with the highest QoS ranking will be
maintained and the rest will be deactivated. In a second step, if more
than one PDP context remain, the PDP context with the highest value for
the maximum bitrate attributes for downlink or uplink is selected. All
PDP contexts except the PDP context(s) with the highest Maximum bitrate
selected will be deactivated.

If more than one PDP context remain after the second step, all PDP
contexts except that with the lowest NSAPI are deactivated.

Table C.1

  ------------- ---------------- ---------------------------
  QoS ranking   Traffic class    Traffic handling priority
  1             Interactive      1
  2             conversational   Not applicable
  3             streaming        Not applicable
  4             Interactive      2
  5             Interactive      3
  6             Background       Not applicable
  ------------- ---------------- ---------------------------

######## Annex D (normative): Determine Traffic Class weights in HLR QoS profile

The QoS profile in the subscription record represents the maximum QoS
per PDP context to the associated APN. Subsequently, it shall be
possible to negotiate all QoS parameters, including an appropriate
Traffic Class for each QoS flow. This is valid for the first PDP context
that is established as well as subsequent PDP contexts, i.e. this
includes primary and secondary PDP contexts activations. The traffic
classes have increasing weight according to the order background,
interactive, streaming and conversational.

######## Annex E (informative): Change History

  ---------------- -------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- ----------------------------------------------------------- -------- ------------
  Change history                                                                                                                
  Date             TSG \#   TSG Doc.    CR     Rev   Cat   Subject/Comment                                             Old      New
  12/2003          SP-22    SP-030654   0145   \-    F     Radio Access Bearer Service Attributes for GERAN            5.10.0   6.0.0
  03/2004          SP-23    SP-040033   0149   2     A     Correction to the use of delivery order set to yes          6.0.0    6.1.0
  03/2004          SP-23    SP-040033   0150   2     F     ARP Clarification                                           6.0.0    6.1.0
  03/2004          SP-23    SP-040033   0151   1     F     Removal of reliability class 1                              6.0.0    6.1.0
  12/2004          SP-26    SP-040912   0153   3     A     Clarification on delivery order set to no                   6.1.0    6.2.0
  06/2005          SP-28    SP-050334   0154   2     F     RAB Allocation/Retention Priority                           6.2.0    6.3.0
  06/2005          SP-28    SP-050334   0156   1     F     Addition of GERAN to the scope clause                       6.2.0    6.3.0
  03/2006          SP-31    SP-060138   0159   \-    F     Peak throughput class reference                             6.3.0    6.4.0
  06/2007          SP-36    \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-7 version (MCC)                               6.4.0    7.0.0
  09/2007          SP-37    SP-070539   0164   1     F     Support of higher maximum bitrate and guaranteed bit rate   7.0.0    7.1.0
  12/2008          SP-42    \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-8 version (MCC)                               7.1.0    8.0.0
  12/2009          SP-46    \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)                               8.0.0    9.0.0
  06/2010          SP-48    SP-100327   0165   3     F     Addition of new QoS parameters evolved ARP and APN-AMBR     9.0.0    9.1.0
  2011-03          SP-51    \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                              9.1.0    10.0.0
  2011-06          SP-52    SP-110322   0168   1     A     Clarification of SRVCC usage of QoS                         10.0.0   10.1.0
  2011-12          SP-54    SP-110729   0171   1     A     QoS mapping                                                 10.1.0   10.2.0
  2012-06          SP-56    SP-120250   0172   2     F     MBR and GBR values to support 8C-HSDPA                      10.2.0   **11.0.0**
  2014-09          SP-65    \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                              11.0.0   **12.0.0**
  2015-12          \-       \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                              12.0.0   **13.0.0**
  2017-03          \-       \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)                              13.0.0   **14.0.0**
  2018-06          SP-80    \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                              14.0.0   **15.0.0**
  2020-07          SP-88E   \-          \-     \-    \-    Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                              15.0.0   **16.0.0**
  ---------------- -------- ----------- ------ ----- ----- ----------------------------------------------------------- -------- ------------
