![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1097222222222223in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#general)

[7](#limited-set-of-utran-iu-mode-plmn-connection-models)

[7](#transparent-data)

[9](#non-transparent-data)

[9](#limited-set-of-geran-iu-mode-plmn-connection-models)

[9](#transparent-data-1)

[11](#non-transparent-data-1)

[11](#bearer-capabilities-for-umts-data-services)

[12](#bearer-capabilities-for-umts-data-services-1)

[12](#transparent-data-2)

[12](#non-transparent-fax)

[12](#nt-data)

[12](#transparent-data-for-support-of-multimedia)

[13](#bc-ie-to-rab-qos-mapping)

[14](#iu-and-nb-user-plane)

[14](#nt-services)

[14](#t-services)

[14](#rlc)

[14](#initial-synchronisation-and-resynchronisation)

[14](#call-control)

[14](#handover-issues)

[14](#signalling-issues)

[14](#user-plane)

[15](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
General 4.1 Limited set of UTRAN Iu mode PLMN connection models 4.1.1
Transparent data 4.1.2 Non-transparent data 4.2 Limited set of GERAN Iu
mode PLMN connection models 4.2.1 Transparent data 4.2.2 Non-transparent
data 5 Bearer Capabilities for UMTS Data Services 5.1 Bearer
Capabilities for UMTS Data Services 5.1.1 Transparent Data 5.1.2
Non-Transparent Fax 5.1.3 NT Data 5.1.4 Transparent Data for Support of
Multimedia 5.2 BC-IE to RAB QoS Mapping 6 Iu and Nb User Plane 6.1 NT
services 6.2 T services 7 RLC 8 Initial Synchronisation and
resynchronisation 9 Call Control 10 Handover Issues 10.1 Signalling
issues 10.2 User Plane Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document provides an overview of the architecture and issues
related to the provision of Circuit Switched Bearer Services in a 3G
mobile network (UMTS) operating in UTRAN or GERAN Iu mode. Handover to
GERAN A/Gb mode is also considered.

NOTE: The Gb interface does not play any role in the scope of the
present document although the term \"A/Gb mode\" is used.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a PLMN\".

\[2\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a PLMN\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a
Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and service capabilities\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 23.034: \"High Speed Circuit Switched Data (HSCSD) -Stage
2\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 23.101: \"General UMTS architecture\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 23.107: \"Quality of Service (QoS), concept and
architecture\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 24.022: \"Radio Link Protocol (RLP) for circuit switched
bearer and teleservices \".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 25.322: \"Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol
specification\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 25.415: \"UTRAN Iu Interface user plane protocols\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 27.001: \"General on Terminal Adaption Functions (TAF)
for Mobile Station (MS)\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 29.007: \"General requirements on interworking between
the Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) and the Integrated Services
Digital Network (ISDN) or Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)\".

\[16\] ITU-T Recommendation V.90 (09/98): \"A digital modem and analogue
modem pair for use on the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) at
data signalling rates of up to 56 000 bit/s downstream and up to 33 600
bit/s upstream\".

\[17\] ITU-T Recommendation T.30 \"Procedures for document facsimile
transmission in the general switched telephone network\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 44.021: \"Rate adaption on the Mobile Station - Base
Station System (MS ‑ BSS) interface\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 48.020: \"Rate adaption on the Base Station System ‑
Mobile‑services Switching Centre (BSS ‑ MSC) interface\".

\[20\] ITU-T Recommendation I.366.1 (06/98): \"Segmentation and
Reassembly Service Specific Convergence Sublayer for the AAL type 2\".

\[21\] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.1 (12/99): \"AAL type 2 signalling
protocol (Capability Set 1)\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 43.051: \"GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN) overall
description, stage 2\"

\[23\] 3GPP TS 43.010: \"GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)
connection types\"

\[24\] 3GPP TS 29.415: \"Core Network Nb Interface User Plane
Protocols\".

\[25\] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.2: \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation Layer
specification : Type 2 AAL\".

\[26\] ITU-T Recommendation I.460 (02/99): \"Multiplexing, rate adaption
and support of existing interfaces\".

\[27\] ITU-T Recommendation I.366.2: \"AAL type 2 service specific
convergence sublayer for narrow-band services\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

The term \'Mobile Station\' (MS) in the present document is synonymous
with the term \'User Equipment\' (UE ) as defined in 3GPP TR 21.905
\[2\].

For the purposes of the present document the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 21.905 \[2\] and the following apply:

**A/Gb mode:** indicates that the text applies only to a system or
sub-system which operate in A/Gb mode of operation, i.e. with a
functional division that is in accordance with the use of an A or a Gb
interface between the radio access network and the core network

**Iu mode:** indicates that the text applies only to a system or a
sub-system which operates in Iu mode of operation, i.e. with a
functional division that is in accordance with the use of an Iu-CS or
Iu-PS interface between the radio access network and the core network

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TS 21.905 \[2\] and the following apply.

BC Bearer Capability

CE Connection Element

CT Circuit

GBR Guaranteed Bitrate

MBR Maximum Bitrate

RA Rate Adaptation Functions

RNL Radio Network Layer

S/C Split/Combine Function

WAIUR Wanted Air Interface User Rate

4 General
=========

CS data services in UMTS are divided according to 3GPP TS 22.001 \[1\]
into Bearer Services (3GPP TS 22.002 \[4\]) and end-to-end Teleservices
(3GPP TS 22.003 \[3\]). These services are built on services provided by
the Access Network. The Radio Access Bearer Services are invoked through
the RNL-SAP provided by the Iu User Plane to the Non-access stratum on
the Core Network side, and the corresponding SAP provided by the RLC to
the Non-access stratum on the Terminal side. Figure 1 shows the service
architecture.

Figure 1: Service architecture

4.1 Limited set of UTRAN Iu mode PLMN connection models
-------------------------------------------------------

### 4.1.1 Transparent data

Figure 2 shows the connection model for synchronous transparent CS data.
In general all the user data bits are conveyed between the MT and the
IWF as they are received from the TE. This implies that the RLC SDU/ Iu
UP frame is transparent.

Figure 3 shows the connection model for asynchronous transparent CS
data. The rate adaptation function RA0 from 3GPP TS 44.021 \[18\]
(adapted to the RLC SDU size) is used for converting between
asynchronous data and a synchronous bit stream. End-to-end flow control
is not applicable in UTRAN Iu mode, thus no status bits are conveyed
over RAN/UTRAN (see 3GPP TS 27.001 \[14\]).

![](media/image4.wmf){width="5.299305555555556in" height="2.3125in"}

Figure 2: Connection model for Synchronous T CS data

![](media/image5.wmf){width="5.207638888888889in"
height="2.811111111111111in"}

Figure 3: Connection model for Asynchronous T CS data

### 4.1.2 Non-transparent data

Figure 4 shows the connection model for asynchronous non-transparent CS
data.

![](media/image6.wmf){width="5.877083333333333in"
height="3.0618055555555554in"}

Figure 4: Connection model for Asynchronous NT CS data

4.2 Limited set of GERAN Iu mode PLMN connection models
-------------------------------------------------------

This subclause gives an overall overview on the PLMN connection models
for circuit switched data services in GERAN Iu mode. The stage 2
description is given in 3GPP TS 43.051 \[22\]. For details concerning
the PLMN connection models refer to 3GPP TS 43.010 \[23\].

### 4.2.1 Transparent data

Figure 5 shows the connection model for synchronous transparent CS data.
In general all the user data bits are conveyed between the MT and the
IWF as they are received from the TE. This implies that the RLC SDU/ Iu
UP frame is transparent.

Figure 6 shows the connection model for asynchronous transparent CS
data. The rate adaptation function RA0 from 3GPP TS 44.021 \[18\]
(adapted to the RLC SDU size) is used for converting between
asynchronous data and a synchronous bit stream. End-to-end flow control
is not applicable in GERAN Iu mode, thus no status bits are conveyed
over RAN/GERAN (see 3GPP TS 27.001 \[14\]).

Figure 5: Connection model for Synchronous T CS data

Figure 6: Connection model for Asynchronous T CS data

### 4.2.2 Non-transparent data

Figure 7 shows the connection model for asynchronous non-transparent CS
data.

Figure 7: Connection model for Asynchronous NT CS data

5 Bearer Capabilities for UMTS Data Services
============================================

The UMTS bearer services are described by the PLMN BC-IE. Five services
(or services categories) are currently distinguishable from the PLMN
BC-IE in UTRAN Iu mode:

\- Speech.

\- Transparent Data for support of Multimedia.

\- Transparent Data.

\- Non-transparent Fax.

\- Non-transparent data.

Four services (or services categories) are currently distinguishable
from the PLMN BC-IE in GERAN Iu mode:

\- Speech.

\- Transparent Data for support of Multimedia.

\- Transparent Data.

\- Non-transparent data.

Speech is currently not in the scope of the present document.

Each UMTS bearer service is supported by a Radio Access Bearers (RAB).
The RABs in turn are described by the QoS parameters. There may be one
or several RAB candidates for supporting a UMTS bearer service. The
possible candidates are described by a mapping of the BC-IE to RAB QoS
described in subclause 5.2.

5.1 Bearer Capabilities for UMTS Data Services
----------------------------------------------

### 5.1.1 Transparent Data

This service is distinguished by the following BC-IE parameters:

\- ITC = UDI or 3.1 kHz audio or Other ITC = RDI.

\- CE = transparent.

For this service the FNUR at the setup is restricted to:

\- 64 kbit/s, in case ITC = UDI.

\- 56 kbit/s in case ITC = UDI or Other ITC = RDI.

\- 28,8 kbit/s, in case ITC = 3,1 kHz audio.

NOTE: ITU-T Recommendation V.90 \[16\] is not supported in transparent
mode, because asymmetric user rates are not supported in transparent
mode.

### 5.1.2 Non-Transparent Fax

This service is only applicable for UTRAN Iu mode. It is distinguished
by the following BC-IE parameters:

\- ITC = Fax Group 3 (ITU-T Recommandation T.30 \[17\]).

\- CE = non-transparent.

WAIUR shall not be more than 28.8 kbit/s. The possible AIURs are limited
to 14,4 kbit/s and 28,8 kbit/s.

### 5.1.3 NT Data

This service is distinguished by the following BC-IE parameters:

\- ITC = UDI or 3.1 kHz audio or Other ITC = RDI.

\- CE = non-transparent.

The possible AIURs in UTRAN Iu mode are limited to 14,4 kbit/s, 28,8
kbit/s and 57,6 kbit/s. For GERAN Iu mode the following AIURs are
possible: 9,6 kbit/s, 14,4 kbit/s, 19,2 kbit/s, 28,8 kbit/s, 38,4
kbit/s, 43,2 kbit/s and 57,6 kbit/s.

### 5.1.4 Transparent Data for Support of Multimedia

This service is distinguished by the following BC-IE parameters:

\- ITC = UDI or 3.1 kHz audio or Other ITC = RDI.

\- CE = transparent.

\- Other rate adaptation = H.223 and H.245.

For this service the FNUR at the setup is restricted to:

\- 64 kbit/s, in case ITC = UDI.

\- 56 kbit/s in case Other ITC = RDI.

\- 33,6 kbit/s, in case ITC = 3,1 kHz audio.

\- 32 kbit/s, in case ITC = UDI.

\- 28,8 kbit/s, in case ITC = 3,1 kHz audio.

NOTE: Transmission rates 31.2 kbit/s and 28.8 kbit/s negotiated by the
modems in a 3.1 kHz multimedia call may be used with a rate adaptation
to 33.6 kbit/s between the UE and the IWF (see 3GPP TS 27.001 \[14\] and
3GPP TS 29.007 \[15\]). The negotiated values shall be provided by the
MSC by way of a MODIFY message.

5.2 BC-IE to RAB QoS Mapping
----------------------------

Since UMTS bearer services are described by BC-IEs and RABs by QoS
parameters, a mapping between the UMTS bearer services and the possible
RABs that support them has to be specified. The QoS mapping is based on
3GPP TS 23.107 \[10\] and is specified in detail in 3GPP TS
27.001\[14\], annex B, subclause B.1.13.

6 Iu and Nb User Plane
======================

6.1 NT services
---------------

The Iu and NB User Plane for NT services is described in Clause 11a.2 of
3GPP TS 29.007 \[15\].

6.2 T services
--------------

The Iu and NB User Plane for T services is described in Clause 11a.3 of
3GPP TS 29.007 \[15\].

7 RLC
=====

The RLC shall be used in transparent mode for T and NT services.

8 Initial Synchronisation and resynchronisation 
===============================================

The initial synchronisation and actions on loss of synchronisation are
specified in 3GPP TS 27.001 \[14\] and 3GPP TS 29.007 \[15\].

9 Call Control
==============

BC-IE negotiation procedures and mapping to ISDN are specified in 3GPP
TS 27.001 \[14\] and 3GPP TS 29.007 \[15\]. BC-IE parameter values shall
be restricted as indicated in subclause 5.1. See also 3GPP TS 27.001
\[14\], annex B, table B.5a for further details on the validity of
parameter values in A/Gb mode and Iu mode.

10 Handover Issues
==================

10.1 Signalling issues
----------------------

The handling of signalling during handover is described in Clause 11.0
of 3GPP TS 29.007 \[15\].

10.2 User Plane
---------------

The handling of the user plane during handover is described in clause 11
of 3GPP TS 29.007 \[15\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- ---------
  Change history                                                                                                                                                                          
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                       **Old**                                   **New**
  12-2004              CN\#26       NP-040607                         "Technical Report" changed to "Technical Specification" in the foreword   1.0.1                                     6.0.0
  03-2005              CN\#27       NP-050110      1                  References for Iu and Nb User Plane                                       6.0.0                                     6.1.0
  06-2007              CT\#36                                         Upgraded to Release 7                                                     6.1.0                                     7.0.0
  12-2008              CT\#42                                         Upgraded to v8.0.0 due to simple upgrade without no technical change      7.0.0                                     8.0.0
  12-2009              CT\#46                                         Automatic upgrade from previous Release                                   8.0.0                                     9.0.0
  09-2010              CT\#49       CP-100549      2        1         Correcting unspecific external reference                                  9.0.0                                     9.1.0
  03-2011              CT\#51                                         Automatic upgrade from previous Release version 9.1.0                     9.1.0                                     10.0.0
  03-2011              CT\#51                                         Correction of heading and numbering made by MCC                           10.0.0                                    10.0.1
  09-2012              CT\#57                                         Automatic upgrade from previous Release version 10.0.1                    10.0.1                                    11.0.0
  10-2014                                                             Automatic upgrade from previous Release                                   11.0.0                                    12.0.0
  12-2015                                                             Automatic upgrade from previous Release                                   12.0.0                                    13.0.0
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                      
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**                                                                   **Subject/Comment**                       **New**
  2017-03              CT\#75                                                                                                                   Automatic upgrade from previous Release   14.0.0
  2018-06              \-           \-             \-       \-                                                                                  Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)            15.0.0
  2020-06              CT\#88e                                                                                                                  Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)            16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- ---------
