![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#normative-references)

[5](#informative-references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[8](#description)

[8](#defining-subscriber-information-for-localised-service-area)

[8](#service-features)

[8](#localised-service-area-indication)

[9](#localised-service-area-support-in-idle-mode-camping)

[9](#localised-service-area-support-in-active-mode-handover)

[9](#exclusive-access)

[9](#lsa-only-access)

[9](#preferential-access)

[9](#impact-on-other-services)

[9](#general)

[10](#void)

[10](#gprs)

[10](#call-forwarding)

[10](#completion-of-calls-to-busy-subscriber-ccbs)

[10](#exceptional-procedures)

[10](#charging-aspects)

[11](#commercial-role-model-for-solsa)

[12](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References
2.1 Normative references 2.2 Informative references 3 Definitions and
abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.3 Abbreviations 4 Description 4.1
Defining subscriber information for localised service area 4.2 Service
Features 4.2.1 Localised service area indication 4.2.2 Localised service
area support in idle mode (camping) 4.2.3 Localised service area support
in active mode (handover) 4.2.4 Exclusive access 4.2.5 LSA only access
4.2.6 Preferential access 5 Impact on other services 5.1 General 5.2
(Void) 5.3 GPRS 5.4 Call Forwarding 5.5 Completion of Calls to Busy
Subscriber (CCBS) 5 Exceptional procedures 6 Charging aspects 7
Commercial Role Model for SoLSA Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

1 Scope
=======

This technical specification, specifies a mechanism, which can be used
as a platform for providing special tariffs and/or special set of
service features for certain subscribers within a regionally restricted
area or areas.

The motivation for this concept is to create means for network operators
to build new service and tariff packages, which take into account
subscriber groups and their needs.

The localised service area is both an optional network feature and an
optional UE feature. Usage and implementation of the different SoLSA
service features may vary according to operator\'s service packages.

This feature is not intended to replace the existing method of cell
selection, cell indication and handover.

"Support of Localised service area (SoLSA)" is renamed Phase 2+ item
"Support of Home Area Priority"

Note: The present document covers description for GERAN support only.
UTRAN support will be added in latter releases.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

2.1 Normative references
------------------------

\[1\] 3GPP TS 22.011: \" Service accessibility \".

2.2 Informative references
--------------------------

\[2\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

**Localised Service Area (LSA):**

A localised service area consists of a cell or a number of cells within
a PLMN.

Cells being part of different localised service areas may have
overlapping coverage areas. The cells constituting a localised service
area may not necessarily provide continuous coverage.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="5.11875in" height="2.204861111111111in"}

Figure 1: Localised Service Area

**Subscribed to LSA:** Set of LSAs, which the user has subscribed to.

**Valid LSA:** A LSA ,whichthe user has subscribed to and his UE can
receive service.

**Current LSA**: The LSA where a UE is receiving service.

**LSA Priority:** Priority of subscriber\'s LSAs. When the user has
several valid LSAs, the current LSA shall be selected by prioritising
LSAs in case of overlapping LSAs.

![](media/image4.wmf){width="5.104166666666667in"
height="1.9715277777777778in"}

Figure 2: Localised Service Areas

**LSA only access:** LSA user is allowed to access PLMN within his
allowed LSAs. LSA user is not allowed to receive and/or originate a call
outside LSA area.

![](media/image5.wmf){width="5.021527777777778in"
height="2.0395833333333333in"}

Figure 3: LSA only access

**Exclusive Access:** Access to exclusive access cells is restricted to
defined LSA subscribers.

![](media/image6.wmf){width="5.11875in" height="2.0743055555555556in"}

Figure 4: Exclusive Access

**Preferential Access:** LSA user shall have preferential access to
resources of LSA cells, compared to non-LSA users.

![](media/image7.wmf){width="5.11875in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}

Figure 5: Preferential Access

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

LSA Localised Service Area

Further abbreviations may be found in TR 21.905 \[2\].

4 Description
=============

The localised service area concept shall give the operator the basis to
offer subscribers different services (e.g. tariffs or access rights)
depending on the location of the subscriber.

4.1 Defining subscriber information for localised service area 
--------------------------------------------------------------

A subscriber can have up to 20 LSAs per PLMN.

It shall be possible to assign localised service areas to subscribers.
Subscriber may have service, which contains several LSAs potentially
belonging to different PLMNs. There shall be means to allocate LSA
priority to each subscriber independently by operator.

Localised service areas for subscriber(s) may overlap, i.e. one cell may
be part of several LSAs belonging to that subscriber.

As an example, within a hierarchical cell structure, cells in different
layers can constitute different localised service areas. A localised
service area could be defined so that it is possible to establish
flexible sized areas, which are applicable to

\- a very small localised service area (\"home area\" covering one or
several cells dedicated e.g. to a residential subscriber or a company);
or

\- a large area covering a part of the city (one or several location
areas); or

\- a combination of these.

Thus it is possible to use the various radio network configurations.

The definition of location areas and the definition of localised service
areas may be independent of each other.

4.2 Service Features
--------------------

Following service features are building blocks for SoLSA based services.
It is up to the operator to decide which service features are required
for a specific service.

\- Localised service area indication.

\- Localised service area support in idle mode (camping).

\- Localised service area support in active mode (handover).

\- LSA only access.

\- Exclusive access.

\- Preferential access.

### 4.2.1 Localised service area indication

It shall be possible to assign a subscriber defined identifier by the
operator to each LSA (alphanumeric text up to 10 characters), which can
be provided to the user in idle and active mode. As a UE manufacturer
option the user may assign an icon or another form of indication to each
LSA.

It shall be possible to indicate a change of localised service area
during idle and active mode.

The indication is a network option (activated/deactivated by the
network).

### 4.2.2 Localised service area support in idle mode (camping) 

The PLMN shall determine, which cells, belonging to the LSA, are to be
favoured by the UE when camping.

When camping on a cell in idle mode, the subscriber\'s mobile station
shall use the information provided by the PLMN in selecting cells
belonging to his localised service area. The mobile station shall have
the ability to reselect a cell in a different LSA with higher priority.
This favouring shall not degrade the overall service quality.

There should be no extra delay in cell selection procedure.

### 4.2.3 Localised service area support in active mode (handover)

The PLMN shall determine, which cells, belonging to the LSA, are to be
favoured during active mode.

The cells belonging to users LSAs shall be favoured at call setup and
when handovers are carried out. This favouring shall not degrade the
overall service quality.

### 4.2.4 Exclusive access

For a cell belonging to one or more service areas and where only one or
more specific subscribers shall have allowed access, other subscriber's
mobile stations shall be prevented from using the cell to obtain any
service, other than TS12 (Emergency Calls).

NOTE: This does not prevent other subscriber\'s mobile stations from
camping on the cell to perform Location Updating.

Handovers into cells belonging to localised service areas where only
specific subscribers shall have allowed access, shall be possible to be
prevented for other subscribers, if required by a SoLSA application.

### 4.2.5 LSA only access

With access allowed only within one or more localised service areas, it
shall be possible to prevent receiving and/or originating basic services
from non-LSA cells. SMS and Supplementary service operations are allowed
in all areas.

It shall be possible to prevent handovers to cells not belonging to
allowed localised service areas, if required by a SoLSA application.

### 4.2.6 Preferential access

It shall be possible to allocate resources at call setup and during the
active mode to LSA users, if required by a SoLSA application.

NOTE: An example of a requirement: the last traffic channel is not
allocated to non-LSA user or in case of congestion an ongoing call of a
non-LSA user is released and replaced with a call of a LSA user.

5 Impact on other services
==========================

5.1 General
-----------

SoLSA is not limited to specific services and there are no modifications
necessary for existing services. In particular there shall be no impact
to Emergency Call (TS12).

LSA should be able to support all tele, bearer and supplementary
services .There is no interaction to supplementary services except those
specified below.

5.2 (Void)
----------

### 5.3 GPRS 

It shall be possible to apply SoLSA services independently to circuit
switched services and to GPRS. LSA support in idle mode shall be
specified for GPRS.

The definition of routing areas and the definition of localised service
areas shall be independent of each other.

5.4 Call Forwarding
-------------------

No interaction.

NOTE: Operators should consider using tools such as ODB and CAMEL to
control call forwarding functionality provided in conjunction with any
SoLSA services.

5.5 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
-------------------------------------------------

LSA only access restrictions shall apply to CCBS recall.

5 Exceptional procedures
========================

None identified.

6 Charging aspects
==================

Based on the use of the feature \"Support of Localised Service Area\" it
is possible to establish local tariff applications (\"home zone
applications\").

7 Commercial Role Model for SoLSA
=================================

SoLSA shall support LSAs which, do not belong to the HPLMN. To enable
this the following commercial role model shall be used:

Figure 6: SoLSA commercial role model

The actors of the SoLSA role model are defined below:

\- Home operator: The Home operator of a SoLSA subscriber is the owner
of the SIM for this subscriber. As such, he is responsible for
transferring the necessary SoLSA information to the subscriber SIM. He
also holds the SoLSA subscriber information (e.g. in the HLR, CAMEL
server, private network node). The Home operator has a commercial
agreement with one or several SoLSA operators. A Home operator can be
commercially the same entity as a SoLSA operator.

\- SoLSA operator: An operator is acting as a SoLSA operator for one
SoLSA subscriber if he owns at least one Localised Service Area (LSA)
for that subscriber. As such, when the user is attached to the SoLSA
operator the SoLSA operator will provide the service for the SoLSA. One
SoLSA operator can own a multiplicity of LSAs for a given SoLSA
subscriber. A SoLSA operator has a commercial agreement with one or a
multiplicity of Home operators (but maximum one per subscriber). A SoLSA
operator can be commercially the same entity as the Home operator.

\- SoLSA subscriber: A SoLSA subscriber is a subscriber who has
subscribed to one Home operator and at least one SoLSA operator (or said
differently, who has an authorisation to receive services from at least
one LSA). A SoLSA subscriber can have a subscription with a multiplicity
of SoLSA operators. A subscriber has always a Home operator, but for
example if he is allowed to have services only in LSAs, his Home
operator and his SoLSA operator can be commercially the same entity.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- -------------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                            
  **TSG SA\#**         **SA Doc.**   **SA1 Doc**   **Spec**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Rel**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                   **Old**   **New**   **WI**
  Jun 1999                                         GSM 02.43                                                                                                7.1.0               
  SA\#04                                           22.043                                             Transferred to 3GPP SA1                                         3.0.0     
  SP-05                SP-99479      S1-99618      22.043      001                R99       D         Editorial changes for alignment                       3.0.0     3.0.1     Editorial changes
  SP-08                SP-000206     S1-000325     22.043      003                R99       F         Clarification of requirements and editorial changes   3.0.1     3.1.0     
  SP-11                SP-010065     S1-010258     42.043                         Rel-4               Transferred to 3GPP Release 4 as GSM only.            3.1.0     4.0.0     
  SP-16                SP-020267     S1-021043     42.043                         Rel-5               Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5                            4.0.0     5.0.0     
  SP-26                SP-040744     S1-040997     42.043                         Rel-6               Updated from Rel-5 to Rel-6                           5.0.0     6.0.0     
  SP-36                                            42.043                         Rel-7               Updated from Rel-6 to Rel-7                           6.0.0     7.0.0     
  SP-42                \-            \-                                           Rel-8               Updated from Rel-7 to Rel-8                           7.0.0     8.0.0     
  SP-46                \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-9 by MCC                               8.0.0     9.0.0     
  2011-03              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                        9.0.0     10.0.0    
  2012-09              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-11 by MCC                              10.0.0    11.0.0    
  2014-10                                                                                             Updated to Rel-12 by MCC                              11.0.0    12.0.0    
  2015-12              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-13 by MCC                              12.0.0    13.0.0    
  2017-03              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-14 by MCC                              13.0.0    14.0.0    
  2018-06              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-15 by MCC                              14.0.0    15.0.0    
  SA\#88e              \-            \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        \-        Updated to Rel-16 by MCC                              15.0.0    16.0.0    
  -------------------- ------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- -------------------
