![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#description)

[9](#normal-operation-with-successful-outcome)

[9](#provision)

[9](#withdrawal)

[9](#network-related-service-configuration)

[9](#normal-operation-for-voice-broadcast-call-establishment)

[10](#charging-requirements)

[10](#security-requirements)

[10](#exceptional-procedures-or-unsuccessful-outcome)

[10](#interaction-with-gsm-services-and-features)

[10](#calling-line-identification-presentation-clip)

[11](#calling-line-identification-restriction-clir)

[11](#connected-line-identification-presentation-colp)

[11](#connected-line-identification-restriction-colr)

[11](#call-forwarding-unconditional-cfu)

[11](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-busy-cfb)

[11](#call-forwarding-on-no-reply-cfnry)

[11](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc)

[11](#call-waiting-cw)

[11](#call-hold-hold)

[12](#multi-party-service-mpty)

[12](#closed-user-group-cug)

[12](#advice-of-charge-aoc)

[12](#barring-of-all-outgoing-calls-baoc)

[12](#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls-boic)

[12](#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls-except-those-directed-to-the-home-plmn-country-boic-exhc)

[12](#barring-of-all-incoming-calls-baic)

[13](#barring-of-incoming-calls-when-roaming-outside-the-home-plmn-country-bic-roam)

[13](#explicit-call-transfer-ect)

[13](#enhanced-multi-level-precedence-and-pre-emption-service-emlpp)

[13](#short-message-service-sms)

[13](#operator-determined-barring-odb)

[13](#completion-of-calls-to-busy-subscribers-ccbs)

[13](#gprs)

[13](#interworking-considerations)

[14](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Description 5 Normal operation with successful outcome 5.1 Provision 5.2
Withdrawal 5.3 Network related service configuration 5.4 Normal
operation for voice broadcast call establishment 5.5 Charging
requirements 5.6 Security requirements 6 Exceptional procedures or
unsuccessful outcome 7 Interaction with GSM services and features 7.1
Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP) 7.2 Calling Line
Identification Restriction (CLIR) 7.3 Connected Line Identification
Presentation (COLP) 7.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
7.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) 7.6 Call Forwarding on mobile
subscriber Busy (CFB) 7.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy) 7.8 Call
Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc) 7.9 Call Waiting
(CW) 7.10 Call Hold (HOLD) 7.11 Multi-party Service (MPTY) 7.12 Closed
User Group (CUG) 7.13 Advice of Charge (AoC) 7.14 Barring of All
Outgoing Calls (BAOC) 7.15 Barring of Outgoing International Calls
(BOIC) 7.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those
directed to the Home PLMN country (BOIC-exHC) 7.17 Barring of All
Incoming Calls (BAIC) 7.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming
outside the home PLMN country (BIC-Roam) 7.19 Explicit Call Transfer
(ECT) 7.20 enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP) 7.21 Short Message Service (SMS) 7.22 Operator Determined
Barring (ODB) 7.23 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscribers (CCBS) 7.24
GPRS 8 Interworking considerations Annex A (informative): Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the stage one description of the Voice
Broadcast Service (VBS) which allows the distribution of speech (or
other signals which can be transmitted via the speech codec), generated
by a service subscriber, into a predefined geographical area to all or a
group of service subscribers located in this area.

The Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) is applicable to all mobile stations
in a certain network and area which have the technical capability and
the respective subscription to receive a VBS call.

NOTE: It is not considered as requirement that normal GSM Phase 2 mobile
stations will be able to be used for this service.

The service is described from the service subscriber\'s and user\'s
point of view; in particular:

\- the procedure for normal operation with successful outcome;

\- the action to be taken in exceptional circumstances;

\- the interaction with other GSM services and features.

The present document does not deal with the Man-Machine Interface (MMI)
requirements, but makes reference to the appropriate Global System for
Mobile communications (GSM) specifications.

The present document defines a teleservice of the digital cellular
telecommunication system GSM. Any interaction with other services and/or
networks not dealt within clauses 8 or 9 are outside the scope of the
present document.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
service (eMLPP); Stage 1\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 32.005: \"Telecommunications management; Charging
management; 3G call and event data for the Circuit Switched (CS)
domain\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**Network operator:** Entity which provides the network operating
elements and resources for the execution of the VBS.

**Service provider:** Entity which offers the VBS for subscription. The
network operator may be the service provider.

**Service subscriber:** Mobile subscriber which subscribes to the VBS.

**Voice broadcast call:** An instance of the VBS initiated by a VBS
subscriber. This term is used synonymously with the term \"VBS call\".

**Group identification (group ID):** A numerical classification. The
maximum number of group Ids which can be defined in one PLMN depends on
the maximum number of group call areas defined in this PLMN. The maximum
number of group Ids and group call areas shall be 108, Service
subscriber shall be provided with one or up to 50 group Ids.

**Dispatcher:** Particular fixed line or mobile users are identified
within the network as dispatchers. Dispatchers shall receive all voice
broadcast calls to a certain group ID in a group call area (this shall
be done automatically by the network). In addition they can initiate
voice broadcast calls to a group ID in a group call area.

Dispatchers shall be connected to a voice broadcast call by means of
standard links via radio or via an ISDN. They shall be called by their
MSISDN or ISDN number, respectively. When dispatchers initiate voice
broadcast calls, they shall call a particular MSISDN number which is
related to a group ID and group call area. Dispatchers using the GSM
network can be located outside of this group call area.

The identities of the dispatchers are exclusively predefined in the
network by the service provider. There may be none, one or more
dispatchers involved in a particular voice broadcast call.

As a mandatory network requirement, configuration of up to 5 dispatchers
shall be supported. Optionally, up to a maximum of 20 dispatchers may be
configured for a particular group call reference.

**Destination service subscriber:** Service subscriber to which the VBS
call is directed.

**Calling service subscriber:** Service subscriber which originates the
VBS call.

**Calling dispatcher**: Dispatcher which originates the VBS call.

**Destination dispatcher**: Pre-registered dispatcher to which the VBS
call is directed.

**Destination subscriber**: Destination dispatcher(s) and/ or
destination service subscriber(s) to which the VGCS call is directed.

**Group call area:** Predefined area composed of one or a cluster of
cells, to which a particular VBS call is distributed. The maximum number
of group call area Ids which can be defined in one PLMN depends on the
maximum number of group Ids defined in this PLMN. The maximum number of
group Ids and group call areas combined shall be 108, The composition of
a group call area is predefined in the network by the service provider.
Changing of cell allocations in the network due to operational reasons
will need an adaptation of the group call area definition. The group
call area may include cells of more then one MSC area and cells of more
than one PLMN.

**Originator-to-dispatcher information**: Information sent by the
service subscriber originating a voice group call to the network during
call setup for distribution to the dispatchers to be attached to the
group call during call setup.

**Listener:** see Listening service subscriber

**Listening service subscriber:** Service subscriber who is listening to
an ongoing voice group call.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905
\[1\].

4 Description
=============

The VBS is defined in the following. Figure 1 gives an explanation of
the logical concept of the VBS.

a\) The VBS enables a calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher
to send speech unidirectional and simultaneously to all entitled
dispatchers and to destination service subscribers belonging to a
predefined group call area who have a subscription to the applicable
group ID.

b\) The calling service subscriber may be any service subscriber which
has subscribed to the related group ID and is entitled to establish a
voice broadcast call by his subscription. The calling dispatcher may be
any dispatcher who is entitled to originate VBS calls to the related
call reference.

The destination subscriber may be any service subscriber which has
subscribed to the related group ID or any dispatcher who is entitled for
it by his identity which is registered in the network.

c\) The broadcast call shall be established in a group call area which
is comprised of one or a cluster of cells. Group call areas shall be
predefined in the network by the service provider, co-ordinated by the
network operator.

In case of a calling service subscriber initiating a VBS call, the group
call area is uniquely identified by the actual cell in which the service
subscriber resides at the moment of VBS call initialization and by the
called group ID.

A calling dispatcher initiating a VBS call will be connected to a
related predefined group call area. The entitlement of the dispatcher is
checked by the network element responsible for the voice broadcast call
management by verification of the calling identity. Since a dispatcher
may be registered to more than one group call area and group ID an
indication of the wanted group call area and group ID has to be given in
form of a dedicated address called by the dispatcher.

d\) Destination subscribers are all destination service subscribers or a
group of destination service subscribers identified by the called group
ID which have their present location in the group call area, and
preregistered destination dispatchers. Destination service subscribers
shall be notified with the group ID, not by paging the service
subscriber individually. Destination dispatchers shall be called
individually with their identity.

Service subscribers which leave the group call area during an on going
VBS call cease to be destination subscribers. Service subscribers which
enter the group call area during an on going VBS call shall become
destination subscribers within 500 ms after reception of the first
notification message related to the VBS call.

e\) The calling service subscriber shall remain within the voice
broadcast call until she terminates the call, loses contact with the
network or leaves the group call area. The VBS call shall be terminated
by the network as soon as the network has determined that the calling
service subscriber has left the VBS call area.

f\) A voice group call will be considered established as soon as the
originating cell in case of a service subscriber originated voice group
call, or any one cell within the group call area in case of a dispatcher
originated voice group call has been included.\
\
The calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher shall be informed
by the network with a suitable indication about the successful
establishment of the voice broadcast call so that he can start to
speak.\
\
The network shall then continue to try to include all remaining voice
group call downlink channels and alert related dispatchers not yet
alerted.

g\) Authentication is mandatory at GSM call set up. To allow fast call
set up in VBS authentication of the calling service subscriber or
calling dispatcher at invocation may optionally be delayed.

> Authentication of the destination subscriber, who has no uplink
> connection, is not required.

Confidentiality on the radio path is optional.

h\) Different levels of priority and pre-emption shall be applied as
defined in the corresponding stageÂ 1 description on the enhanced
Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service (eMLPP), 3GPP TS 22.067.

i\) A number of voice broadcast calls may exist simultaneously intended
for different groups of destination subscribers in the same group call
area.

Parallel voice broadcast calls are possible to the same group of
destination subscribers in different, possibly overlapping group call
areas.

j\) VBS shall also be provided in case of roaming. For this, certain
group Ids shall be defined as supra-PLMN group Ids which have to be
co-ordinated between the network operators and which shall be known in
the networks and in the SIM. A service subscriber which is entitled by
his subscription to establish voice broadcast calls while roaming shall
only be able to use supra-PLMN group Ids in case of roaming.

k\) For certain levels of priorities an acknowledgement of receipt of a
voice broadcast call can be required as an application option (e.g. for
railway emergency calls) from all or from nominated destination service
subscribers (the nomination is recorded on the SIM). The acknowledgement
itself shall be performed at the end of the voice broadcast call. The
acknowledgement shall indicate the time the reception started and the
time the reception terminated. The acknowledgement has to be given to a
predefined recipient.

l\) It shall be possible for a service subscriber to activate or
deactivate the voice broadcast reception for different group Ids. The
selection list is stored on the SIM corresponding to the subscribed
group Ids. It shall be possible to prohibit the deactivation of group
Ids used for high priority voice broadcast calls.

Mobile users that are configured as dispatchers and which are registered
in the network for a certain voice broadcast call and which have also a
subscription for VBS with the same group ID as the voice broadcast call
for which they are dispatcher shall deactivate this group ID when they
are located in the corresponding group call area in order to avoid
conflicts between paging for the dispatcher and notifications for the
group ID.

m\) The calling service subscriber may specify, at call setup,
information to be presented at call setup to the dispatchers. This
information is sent as originator-to-dispatcher information to the
network, and sent as UUS1 by the network to the dispatchers in the
message for call setup. For normal call setup, the information is
subject to the same constraints as UUS1 information in the setup of a
point-to-point call. For fast setup, the information is restricted to 12
digits (with leading zeros); inclusion of originator-to-dispatcher
information at fast setup is only possible if the mobile station has a
valid TMSI. It is a network option to support originator-to-dispatcher
information, or to ignore it. The inclusion of originator-to-dispatcher
information in the VBS call setup is not subject to provision or
withdrawal.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="4.479861111111111in"
height="5.495833333333334in"}

NOTE: VBS1, VBS2, VBS3 = particular voice broadcast calls with the
attributes preregistered in the network.

A, B, C, D = service subscriber with group ID a, b, c or d,
respectively.

I. II, III, IV = group call areas.

w, x, y, z = dispatchers connected via normal GSM links or external
networks.

Figure 1: Logical concept of the VBS

5 Normal operation with successful outcome
==========================================

5.1 Provision
-------------

The VBS is provided to be used by a service subscriber after prior
arrangements with the service provider. The provision includes the
assignment of group IDs to the service subscriber. A subscription shall
not provide more than 50 group IDs to the service subscriber.

The service can be offered with two subscription options:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------
  **Subscription option**                                                                 **Value**
  \- subscriber has the capability of initiating voice broadcast calls                    No
                                                                                          Yes;
  \- subscriber has the capability to initiate voice broadcast calls in case of roaming   No
                                                                                          Yes.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------

5.2 Withdrawal
--------------

The VBS is withdrawn at the service provider\'s request or for
administrative reasons.

5.3 Network related service configuration
-----------------------------------------

The network related service configuration defines the attributes of a
particular voice broadcast call which shall be pre-registered in the
network by the service provider. This is not related to one specific
service subscriber.

The attributes of a particular broadcast call are group ID, group call
area composition, a list of dispatcher identities to be connected to
this area, a list of dispatchers allowed to initiate voice broadcast
calls to this area, the broadcast call reference identity which shall be
used in case of COLP (see subclause 7.3) and recipient identities to
which an optional acknowledgement can be routed. Changes to the group
call area composition shall be co-ordinated with the network operator.

5.4 Normal operation for voice broadcast call establishment
-----------------------------------------------------------

The VBS service shall be automatically initiated by the network when a
calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher dials a particular
short code or address at call set-up.

On successful initiation of the VBS, the voice broadcast call shall be
established between the calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher
and the destination subscribers. The destination subscribers are:

\- all destination service subscribers at any time during the voice
broadcast call with the corresponding active group ID when located in
the group call area, where the group call area is uniquely defined by:

\- the location (radio cell) of the calling service subscriber at
invocation and group ID if the call is originated by a calling
subscriber is a service subscriber;

\- the addressed group call area if the call is originated by a calling
dispatcher;

\- the preregistered destination dispatchers related to that group call
area and group ID.

The calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher shall be informed
by the network with a suitable indication about the successful
establishment of the voice broadcast call so that the user can start to
speak.

The call can be released by the calling service subscriber or by the
calling dispatcher or by the network (e.g. in case of a higher priority
call) or by an entitled dispatcher predefined in the network.

Destination subscribers leaving the voice broadcast call for any reason
shall not release the on going voice broadcast call.

5.5 Charging requirements
-------------------------

Normal event data according to 3GPP TS 32.005 shall be recorded as a
network option related to calling subscriber or related to all VBS calls
to one group ID in a specific group call area. . In addition data to be
passed to the anchor MSC for charging purposes is the resources (i.e.
cell identities) used during a call.

5.6 Security requirements
-------------------------

VBS shall be able to support over-the-air ciphering in order to provide
confidentiality protection to group calls.

VBS ciphering is an operator's option.

VBS shall provide means such that only a legitimate service subscriber
is able to participate in a ciphered VBS call when the operator requires
confidentiality protection for the group call. To include a subscriber
into a ciphered voice group the required group data shall be stored on
the USIM. Storing these group data on the USIM may be done e.g. during
the USIM personalisation process or via OTA (over-the-air) provisioning.

A pre- Rel-6 VBS capable mobile shall be able to participate in an
un-ciphered group call, if it is part of that group.

6 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
================================================

If a service subscriber wants to establish a voice broadcast call while
not subscribed to the service or the network cannot provide the service
for some reason, an indication shall be provided to the calling service
subscriber to notify him with the reason of failure.

If a dispatcher wants to establish a voice broadcast call while not
entitled to do it or the network cannot provide the service for some
reason, the call shall be rejected. The network shall give an
appropriate indication to calling dispatchers who are GSM subscribers.

A voice group call shall be considered established as soon as the
originated cell in case of a service subscriber originated broadcast
call or any one cell within the group call area in case of a dispatcher
originated broadcast call has been included. If this cannot be achieved
within a specified time the call will be released.

If a cell is excluded from the group call area because of pre-emption,
the voice broadcast call is maintained as long as the calling subscriber
is not pre-empted.

7 Interaction with GSM services and features
============================================

7.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
---------------------------------------------------

If CLIP is applied, the broadcast call reference -- including the group
call area ID and the group ID -- shall be presented to the destination
dispatchers. In addition the subaddress field of the calling party may
be used to identify the calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher
to the destination dispatchers.

The receiving mobile stations of the destination subscribers shall
display the paged group ID regardless the destination subscribers have a
subscription to CLIP.

7.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
--------------------------------------------------

CLIR shall be supported.

The network shall have the possibility to override CLIR or reject the
request to establish a voice broadcast call for a calling service
subscriber or calling dispatcher who has CLIR actived.

7.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
-----------------------------------------------------

If COLP is applied, the broadcast call reference - including the group
call area ID and the group ID - shall be presented to the calling
dispatcher. No destination subscriber identities will be presented.

Calling service subscribers receive the broadcast call reference via
standard broadcast call setup messaging. COLP therefore does not apply
to service subscribers.

7.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
----------------------------------------------------

COLR is not applicable to voice broadcast calls.

7.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
---------------------------------------

CFU is not applicable to voice broadcast calls of service subscribers
when activate and operative, i.e. CFU shall be ignored.

CFU is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice broadcast calls are
forwarded by CFU.

7.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
---------------------------------------------------

CFB is not applicable to voice broadcast calls of service subscribers
with CFB active and operative.

CFB is applicable for dispatchers if the voice broadcast call does not
have a higher priority than the present call.

7.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
---------------------------------------

CFNRy is not applicable to voice broadcast calls of service subscribers
with CFNRy active and operative.

CFNRy is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice broadcast calls are
forwarded by CFNRy.

7.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
--------------------------------------------------------------

CFNRc is not applicable to voice broadcast calls of service subscribers
with CFNRc active and operative.

CFNRc is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice broadcast calls are
forwarded by CFNRc.

7.9 Call Waiting (CW)
---------------------

CW is not applicable for service subscriber. Instead, as a network
option, a notification of paging for other calls shall be given to the
service subscribers involved in the voice broadcast call.

CW is applicable for dispatchers.

7.10 Call Hold (HOLD)
---------------------

Call hold is not applicable for service subscribers. For handling of
parallel voice broadcast calls to the same destination subscriber see
item i) of clause 4.

A calling service subscriber cannot leave the voice broadcast call
without releasing the call.

The acceptance of a voice broadcast call by a service subscriber while
being in a point-to-point call shall release the point-to-point call.
The release will be invoked by the mobile station.

If a voice broadcast call is requested by a service subscriber while
being in a point-to-point call, the pointâ€‘toâ€‘point call shall be
released. The release will be invoked by the mobile station.

Call hold is applicable for dispatchers.

7.11 Multi-party Service (MPTY)
-------------------------------

MPTY is not applicable for service subscribers.

MPTY is applicable for dispatchers, subject to the capabilities of the
UE and the serving network.

7.12 Closed User Group (CUG)
----------------------------

CUG is not applicable for service subscribers. Consequently, being a
member of a CUG has no impact on receiving voice broadcast calls.

CUG is applicable for dispatchers. Therefore a dispatcher who is a
member of a CUG may be excluded from originating, joining and receiving
broadcast calls subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving
network.

7.13 Advice of Charge (AoC)
---------------------------

AoC can be provided to the calling subscriber as network option.

7.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC)
-----------------------------------------

BAOC is applicable, if subscribed to, with the possible exception of
high priority voice broadcast calls.

7.15 Barring of Outgoing International Calls (BOIC)
---------------------------------------------------

BOIC is not applicable for voice broadcast calls of service subscribers.

BOIC is applicable for dispatchers.

7.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those directed to the Home PLMN country (BOIC-exHC)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOIC-exHC is not applicable for voice broadcast calls of service
subscriber.

BOIC-exHC is applicable for dispatchers.

7.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC)
-----------------------------------------

BAIC is not applicable for voice broadcast calls to service subscribers.

BAIC is applicable for dispatchers.

7.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming outside the home PLMN country (BIC-Roam)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BIC-Roam is not applicable for voice broadcast calls to service
subscribers.

BIC-Roam is applicable for dispatchers.

7.19 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
---------------------------------

ECT is not applicable for service subscribers.

ECT is applicable for dispatchers, subject to the capabilities of the UE
and the serving network.

7.20 enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service (eMLPP)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Different priorities with corresponding set-up procedures are applicable
as defined in the stage 1 description on eMLPP in 3GPP TS 22.067.

7.21 Short Message Service (SMS)
--------------------------------

Sending and reception of short messages is not possible for destination
service subscribers.

7.22 Operator Determined Barring (ODB)
--------------------------------------

Same as for subscriber controlled barring.

7.23 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscribers (CCBS)
---------------------------------------------------

The CCBS supplementary service is only applicable for dispatchers and
not for VBS service subscribers.

If a new terminating p-t-p call is set up to a dispatcher who is busy
because of an active VBS call, it shall be possible to allow the calling
party to apply the CCBS service. If the dispatcher initiates a VBS call
and the called broadcast ID has been active, then the dispatcher shall
be connected to the ongoing VBS call..

7.24 GPRS
---------

Depending on the capabilities of the UE it shall be possible for the
mobile dispatcher, for the calling service subscriber as well as for the
listening service subscribers to use GPRS in parallel to the VBS,
subject to the capabilities of the serving network.

8 Interworking considerations
=============================

No specific requirements are identified.

######## Annex A (informative): Change History

  --------- ----------- ----------- ---------------- ------ ----- ------- ----- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ---------
  TSG\#     TSG doc     WG doc      Spec             CR     Rev   Ph      Cat   Title                                                                                               Old vers       New vers        WI
  S\#28                 May 2000    02.69                         R99           Specification upgrade to Release 1999 version 8.0.0                                                 7.0.0          8.0.0           
  S\#32                 June 1999   02.69            A014         R00           Introduction of Originator-to-dispatcher information into VBS                                       8.0.0          9.0.0           
                                    02.69 / 42.069                              Conversion to 3GPP TS format                                                                        02.69 v9.0.0   42.069 v4.0.0   \-
  SP-10     SP-000550               42.069           001          Rel-4   A     Correction of implementation of Clarification of interaction with CCBS service                      4.0.1          4.1.0           Correct
  SP-16     SP-020267   S1-021043   42.069                        Rel-5         Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5                                                                          4.1.0          5.0.0           
            2002-07                                               Rel-5         Correction to version number                                                                        5.0.0          5.0.1           
  SP-25     SP-040508   S1-040644   42.069           002    \-    Rel-6   B     Addition of optional over-the-air ciphering for VBS                                                 5.0.1          6.0.0           SECGKYV
  SP-28     SP-050210   S1-050476   42.069           005    \-    Rel-6   A     Correction on the use of calling subscriber and destination subscriber                              6.0.0          6.1.0           ASCI
  SP-31     SP-060028   S1-060197   42.069           0006   \-    Rel-7   C     Modification to setup to remove the need for full conditions                                        6.1.0          7.0.0           TEI7
  SP-31     SP-060027   S1-060211   42.069           0007   \-    Rel-7   C     Increasing maximum number of dispatchers to 20 as an optional requirement                           6.1.0          7.0.0           EGCS
  SP-34     SP-060775   S1-061319   42.069           0008   \-    Rel-8   F     Correction on the use of listening service subscriber                                               7.0.0          8.0.0           TEI8
  SP-34     SP-060759   S1-061411   42.069           0009   \-    Rel-8   F     Support of the use of GPRS for individual VBS subscribers in parallel to an active broadcast call   7.0.0          8.0.0           EGCS
  SP-37     SP-070644   S1-071103   42.069           10     1     Rel-8   C     TCRT: Clarification of interactions with supplementary and other GSM services                       8.0.0          8.1.0           TEI8
  SP-46     \-          \-          \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-9 by MCC                                                                             8.1.0          9.0.0           
  2011-03   \-          \-          \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                                                      9.0.0          10.0.0          
  2012-09   \-          \-          \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-11 by MCC                                                                            10.0.0         11.0.0          
  2014-10                                                                       Updated to Rel-12 by MCC                                                                            11.0.0         12.0.0          
  2015-12   \-          \-          \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-13 by MCC                                                                            12.0.0         13.0.0          
  2017-03   \-          \-          \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-14 by MCC                                                                            13.0.0         14.0.0          
  2018-06   \-          \-          \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-15 by MCC                                                                            14.0.0         15.0.0          
  --------- ----------- ----------- ---------------- ------ ----- ------- ----- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                    
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**        **New version**
  2020-07              SA\#88e       \-         \-       \-        \-        Updated to Rel-16 by MCC   16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------- -----------------
