![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#description)

[10](#normal-operation-with-successful-outcome)

[10](#provision)

[11](#withdrawal)

[11](#network-related-service-configuration)

[11](#void)

[11](#normal-operation-for-voice-group-call-establishment)

[11](#charging-requirements)

[12](#security-requirements)

[12](#exceptional-procedures-or-unsuccessful-outcome)

[12](#interaction-with-other-gsm-services)

[12](#calling-line-identification-presentation-clip)

[13](#calling-line-identification-restriction-clir)

[13](#connected-line-identification-presentation-colp)

[13](#connected-line-identification-restriction-colr)

[13](#call-forwarding-unconditional-cfu)

[13](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-busy-cfb)

[13](#call-forwarding-on-no-reply-cfnry)

[13](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc)

[13](#call-waiting-cw)

[14](#call-hold-hold)

[14](#multi-party-service-mpty)

[14](#closed-user-group-cug)

[14](#advice-of-charge-aoc)

[14](#barring-of-all-outgoing-calls-baoc)

[14](#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls-boic)

[14](#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls-except-those-to-the-home-plmn-country-boic-exhc)

[15](#barring-of-all-incoming-calls-baic)

[15](#barring-of-incoming-calls-when-roaming-outside-the-home-plmn-country-bic-roam)

[15](#explicit-call-transfer-ect)

[15](#enhanced-multi-level-precedence-and-pre-emption-service-emlpp)

[15](#short-message-service-sms)

[16](#operator-determined-barring-odb)

[16](#completion-of-calls-to-busy-subscribers-ccbs)

[16](#gprs)

[16](#interworking-considerations)

[17](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Description 5 Normal operation with successful outcome 5.1 Provision 5.2
Withdrawal 5.3 Network related service configuration 5.3.1 Void 5.4
Normal operation for voice group call establishment 5.5 Charging
requirements 5.6 Security requirements 6 Exceptional procedures or
unsuccessful outcome 7 Interaction with other GSM services 7.1 Calling
Line Identification Presentation (CLIP) 7.2 Calling Line Identification
Restriction (CLIR) 7.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
7.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR) 7.5 Call Forwarding
Unconditional (CFU) 7.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
7.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy) 7.8 Call Forwarding on mobile
subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc) 7.9 Call Waiting (CW) 7.10 Call Hold
(HOLD) 7.11 Multi-party Service (MPTY) 7.12 Closed User Group (CUG) 7.13
Advice of Charge (AoC) 7.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC) 7.15
Barring of Outgoing International Calls (BOIC) 7.16 Barring of Outgoing
International Calls except those to the Home PLMN country (BOIC-exHC)
7.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC) 7.18 Barring of Incoming Calls
when Roaming outside the home PLMN country (BIC-Roam) 7.19 Explicit Call
Transfer (ECT) 7.20 Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
service (eMLPP) 7.21 Short Message Service (SMS) 7.22 Operator
Determined Barring (ODB) 7.23 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscribers
(CCBS) 7.24 GPRS 8 Interworking considerations Annex A (informative):
Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the stage one description of the Voice
Group Call Service (VGCS) which allows speech conversation of a
predefined group of service subscribers in half duplex mode on the radio
link taking into account multiple mobile service subscribers involved in
the VGCS call per cell.

The VGCS is applicable to all mobile stations in a certain network and
area which have the technical capability and the corresponding
subscription, respectively, to participate in a VGCS call.

NOTE: It is not considered as requirement that normal GSM phase 2 mobile
stations will be able to be used for this service.

The service is described from the service subscriber's and user's point
of view; in particular:

\- the procedure for normal operation with successful outcome;

\- the action to be taken in exceptional circumstances;

\- the interaction with other GSM services and features.

The present document does not deal with the Man-Machine Interface (MMI)
requirements, but makes reference to the appropriate Global System for
Mobile Communications (GSM) specifications.

The present document defines a teleservice of the digital cellular
telecommunications system GSM. Any interaction with other services
and/or networks not dealt with in clauses 7 or 8 are outside the scope
of the present document.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
service (eMLPP); Stage 1\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 32.005: \"Telecommunications management; Charging
management; 3G call and event data for the Circuit Switched (CS)
domain\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 43.020: \"Security-related network functions\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**Network operator:** Entity which provides the network operating
elements and resources for the execution of the VGCS.

**Service provider:** Entity which offers the VGCS for subscription. The
network operator may be the service provider.

**Voice group call**: An instance of the VGCS initiated by a subscriber.
This term is used synonymously with the term "VGCS call".

**Service subscriber:** Mobile subscriber which subscribes to the VGCS.

**Group identification (group ID):** A numerical classification. The
maximum number of group Ids which can be defined in one PLMN depends on
the maximum number of group call areas defined in this PLMN. The maximum
number of group Ids and group call areas combined is 108, Service
subscriber shall be provided with one or up to 50 group Ids.

**Dispatcher:** Particular fixed line or mobile users are identified
within the network as dispatchers. Dispatchers shall receive all voice
group calls to a certain group ID in a group call area (this shall be
done automatically by the network). In addition they can initiate voice
group calls to a group ID in a group call area.

Dispatchers shall be connected to a voice group call by means of
standard links via radio or via an ISDN. They shall be called by their
MSISDN or ISDN number, respectively. When dispatchers initiate voice
group calls, they shall call a particular MSISDN number which is related
to a group ID and group call area. Dispatchers using the GSM network can
be located outside of this group call area.

The identities of the dispatchers are exclusively predefined in the
network by the service provider. There may be none, one or more
dispatchers involved in a particular voice group call.

As a mandatory network requirement, a configuration of up to 5
dispatchers shall be supported. Optionally, up to a maximum of 20
dispatchers may be configured for a particular group call reference.

**Destination service subscriber:** Service subscriber to which the VGCS
call is directed.

**Calling service subscriber:** Service subscriber which originates the
VGCS call.

**Calling dispatcher**: dispatcher which originates the VGCS call.

**Destination dispatcher**: Pre-registered dispatcher to which the VGCS
call is directed.

**Destination subscriber**: Destination dispatcher(s) and/ or
destination service subscriber(s) to which the VGCS call is directed.

**Group call area**: Predefined area composed of one or a cluster of
cells to which a particular VGCS call is distributed. The maximum number
of group call area Ids which can be defined in one PLMN depends on the
maximum number of group Ids defined in this PLMN. The maximum number of
group Ids and group call areas combined is 108, The composition of a
group call area is predefined in the network by the service provider.
Changing of cell allocation in the network due to operational reasons
will need an adaptation of the group call area definition. The group
call area may include more then one MSC area and cells of more than one
PLMN.

**Group call member:** Any service subscriber or dispatcher
participating in an on going voice group call.

**Listener:** see Listening service subscriber

**Listening service subscriber:** Service subscriber who is listening to
an ongoing voice group call.

**Originator-to-dispatcher information**: Information sent by the
service subscriber originating a voice group call to the network during
call setup for distribution to the dispatchers to be attached to the
group call during call setup.

**Talker: see Talking service subscriber**

**Talking service subscriber:** Service subscriber who is currently
allowed to talk to other group call members.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPPÂ TRÂ 21.905.

4 Description
=============

The VGCS is defined in the following. Figure 1 gives an explanation of
the logical concept of the VGCS.

a\) The VGCS enables a calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher
to establish a voice group call to destination subscribers belonging to
a predefined group call area and group ID.

Applications for voice group call services typically involve multiple
group members in a small group call area, for which the VGCS should
provide spectrum efficient solutions.

b)  The calling service subscriber as well as the destination service
    > subscribers may be any service subscriber which has subscribed to
    > the related group ID. The calling dispatcher may be any dispatcher
    > who is entitled to originate VGCS calls to the related call
    > reference.

c)  Destination subscribers are all destination service subscribers or a
    > group of destination service subscribers identified by the called
    > group ID which have their present location in the group call area,
    > and pre-registered destination dispatchers. Destination service
    > subscribers shall be notified with the group ID, not by paging the
    > subscriber individually. Destination dispatchers shall be called
    > individually with their identity.

Service subscribers may become late destination subscribers when
entering the group call area within 500 ms after reception of the first
notification message related to the VGCS call. Service subscribers which
leave the corresponding group call area during an on going VGCS call of
which they are member cease to be destination subscribers.

d\) The voice group call shall be established in a group call area which
is comprised of one or a cluster of cells. Group call areas shall be
predefined in the network by the service provider, co-ordinated by the
network operator.

In case of a calling service subscriber initiating a VGCS, the group
call area is uniquely identified by the actual cell in which the service
subscriber resides at the moment of VGCS call initialization and by the
group ID they issue.

A calling dispatcher initiating a VGCS call will be connected to a
related predefined group call area. The entitlement of the dispatcher is
checked by the network element responsible for the voice group call
management by verification of the calling identity. Since a dispatcher
may be registered to more than one group call area and group ID an
indication of the wanted group call area and group ID has to be given in
form of a dedicated address called by the dispatcher.

e\) The service shall permit only one talking service subscriber at any
moment; additionally all dispatchers may be talking simultaneously at
one time. Dispatchers should hear all combinations of voices other than
their own. Listening service subscribers shall hear the combination of
all voices. The talking service subscriber shall be given some
indication if any dispatchers are also talking.

NOTE 1: The indication may be just the dispatcher's voice.

> A dispatcher shall be able to talk at any moment , but the network
> operator may require him to signal the wish to talk to the network. If
> the network operator requires a dispatcher to indicate his wish to
> talk then a dispatcher in that network shall also indicate that he has
> finished speaking.
>
> Service subscribers who wish to talk shall indicate this. They shall
> only be able to become talking subscribers if there is no other
> talking service subscriber. The right to be a talking service
> subscriber is allocated on a first come first served basis without
> queuing. Once a service subscriber has become a talking subscriber
> they shall eventually indicate their wish to become a listening
> subscriber, or the network may detect that they are no longer a
> talking subscriber due to time-out or other mechanisms.

CW and procedures for supplementary service management are not possible
for a service subscriber.

f\) A voice group call will be considered established as soon as the
originating cell in case of a service subscriber originated voice group
call, or any one cell within the group call area in case of a dispatcher
originated voice group call has been included.\
\
The calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher shall be informed
by the network with a suitable indication about the successful
establishment of the voice group call so that he can start to speak.\
\
The network shall then continue to try to include all remaining voice
group call downlink channels and alert related dispatchers not yet
alerted.

The system provides that for an established voice group call the uplink
assignment to a service subscriber who wishes to talk is performed under
normal conditions in \<300 ms after a request to talk is made.

The mobile station of the talking service subscriber shall be requested
to send its IMSI to the network in order so that the talker's IMSI be
stored in the event records.

g\) Authentication is mandatory at GSM-call set up. To allow fast call
set up in VGCS authentication of calling service subscribers or calling
dispatchers at invocation may optionally be delayed. Similarly
authentication of the talking service subscriber may optionally be
delayed to allow fast access.

Confidentiality on the radio path is optional.

h\) Different levels of priority and pre-emption shall be applied as
defined in the stage 1 description on the enhanced Multi-Level
Precedence and Pre-emption Service (eMLPP) in 3GÂ TSÂ 22.067.

i\) A number of voice group calls may exist simultaneously intended for
different groups of destination users in the same group call area.

Parallel voice group calls are possible to the same group of destination
subscribers in different, possibly overlapping, group call areas.

j\) A voice group call shall be released on demand of the calling
service subscriber or by an entitled dispatcher or by the network.

NOTE 2: The release by the calling service subscriber is only possible
if the uplink is assigned to the calling service subscriber.

Automatic release of a voice group call after a selectable time of no
voice activity is required.

j1) If the mobile station having the uplink assigned leaves the group
call area, it shall also leave the voice group call. However, the voice
group call shall be maintained by the network.

This behaviour shall also apply if the mobile station is the calling
service subscriber.

k\) VGCS shall also be provided in case of roaming. For this, certain
group Ids shall be defined as supra-PLMN group Ids which have to be
co-ordinated between the network operators and which shall be known in
the networks and in the SIM. A service subscriber which is entitled by
his subscription to establish voice group calls while roaming shall only
be able to use supra-PLMN group Ids in case of roaming.

l\) For certain levels of priorities an acknowledgement of receipt of a
voice group call can be required as an application option (e.g. for
railways emergency calls) from all or from nominated destination service
subscribers (nomination is recorded on the SIM). The acknowledgement
itself shall be performed at the end of the voice group call. The
acknowledgement shall indicate the time the reception started and the
time the reception terminated. The acknowledgement has to be given to a
predefined recipient.

m\) It shall be possible for a service subscriber to activate or
deactivate the voice group call reception for different group Ids. The
selection list is stored on the SIM corresponding to the subscribed
group Ids. It shall be possible to prohibit the deactivation of group
Ids used for high priority calls.

Mobile users that are configured as dispatchers and which are registered
in the network for a certain voice group call and which have also a
subscription for VGCS with the same group ID as the voice group call for
which they are dispatcher shall deactivate this group ID when they are
located in the corresponding group call area in order to avoid conflicts
between paging for the dispatcher and notifications for the group ID.

n\) The calling service subscriber may specify, at call setup,
information to be presented at call setup to the dispatchers. This
information is sent as originator-to-dispatcher information to the
network, and sent as UUS1 by the network to the dispatchers in the
message for call setup. For normal call setup, the information is
subject to the same constraints as UUS1 information in the setup of a
point-to-point call. For fast setup, the information is restricted to 12
digits (with leading zeros); inclusion of originator-to-dispatcher
information at fast setup is only possible if the mobile station has a
valid TMSI. It is a network option to support originator-to-dispatcher
information, or to ignore it. The inclusion of originator-to-dispatcher
information in the VGCS call setup is not subject to provision or
withdrawal.

o\) Optionally, a service subscriber may be given a subscription option
to receive privilege for the following:

\- A privileged service subscriber shall be able to release the current
talker (i.e. the current talker shall become a listener, but not
released from the call) and become the talker. The privileged service
subscriber shall not become the new talker until he is accepted by the
network.

p\) Optionally, a service subscriber shall be able to indicate an
emergency situation to the network, and become the talker even if the
current talker is a privileged talker. Until this service subscriber has
stopped being the talker he shall not be released by another service
subscriber unless the periodic emergency signalling has been terminated
by a privileged service subscriber. Thereafter the privileged service
subscriber may indicate an emergency situation to the network, and
become the talker. The service subscriber indicating an emergency
situation shall not become the new talker until he is accepted by the
network.

\- If more than one subscriber indicates an emergency situation to the
network the first one becomes the talker.

\- It shall be possible to periodically transmit an emergency indication
to all service subscribers of the VGCS even the ones that have not
accepted the voice group call. This should continue until the voice
group call is released or the periodic emergency transmission is
terminated by a privileged service subscriber

\- Subject to the capabilities of the serving network and the UE, it
shall be possible to transmit to all dispatchers an emergency indication
and an indication that the emergency situation has ended.

q\) Optionally, it shall be possible to display additional information
(short text stings e.g., "fire arm expert") about the current talker to
all the listeners of the voice group call, regardless whether they have
requested the talker functionality or indicated an emergency situation,
and - subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving network - to
all dispatchers participating in the voice group call. The additional
information shall be sent to all listeners and dispatchers participating
in the voice group call when the service subscriber becomes a talker. It
should be transmitted periodically to all active cells of the ongoing
voice group call as long as the service subscriber remains talker. The
additional information shall be displayed as long as the service
subscriber remains talker.

r\) Optionally, it shall be possible for a service subscriber or
dispatcher in a voice group call to send application-specific data to
the network for distribution to group call members. Subject to
information available in the network and/ or provided by the sender, the
network shall distribute the data to one or more of the following:
service subscriber participating in the voice group call, mobile
dispatchers connected to the group call, fixed line dispatchers
connected to the group call, subject to the capabilities of the UE and
the serving network, and; a VGCS application (e.g. in an external server
or network-based).

> The data may be time critical, in which case transfer shall be within
> a short time period (with a target of not more than 500ms) without
> impacting voice quality of the group call.

Note 3: The achievement of the transfer times depends on technical
realizations and network planning. E.g. in order to achieve a transfer
time of 500 ms or less, it may be necessary to restrict the group call
area to one single MSC area.

> For contention resolution purposes, a service subscriber request to
> send application-specific data may be assigned a higher priority than
> a 'normal' or 'privilege' request to talk or a lower priority than all
> requests to talk.

s\) Optionally, it shall be possible for a VGCS application (in an
external server or network-based) to send a small amount of
application-specific data to the network for distribution to group call
members. The network shall distribute the data to the service
subscribers and to dispatchers connected to the group call, subject to
information available in the network and/ or provided by the VGCS
application,

t\) Optionally, it shall be possible for service subscribers in a voice
group call, dispatchers in a voice group call and a VGCS application (in
external server or network-based) to receive a small amount of
application-specific data.

u\) Optionally, it shall be possible for a service subscriber in a voice
group call to send an application-specific indication for a VGCS
application in the network (or in an external server). Subject to
information available in the network and/ or provided by the sender or
VGCS application, an acknowledgement may be returned.

> For contention resolution purposes, a service subscriber request to
> send an application-specific indication may be assigned a higher
> priority than a 'normal' or 'privilege' request to talk or a lower
> priority than all requests to talk.

v\) Optionally, it shall be possible for the network to gather
information on the identities of current listeners within a specified
time interval, and to inform dispatchers on the identities of current
listeners. Also, this information may be provided to service
subscribers.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="4.479861111111111in"
height="5.495833333333334in"}

Note 4: VGCS1, VGCS2, VGCS3 = particular voice group calls with the
attributes pre-registered in the network.

A, B, C, D = service subscriber with group ID a, b, c or d,
respectively.

II, III, IV = group call areas.

w, x, y, z = dispatchers connected via normal GSM links or external
networks.

Figure 1: Logical concept of the VGCS

5 Normal operation with successful outcome
==========================================

5.1 Provision
-------------

The VGCS is provided to be used by the service subscriber after prior
arrangements with the service provider. The provision includes the
assignment of group Ids to the service subscriber. A subscription shall
not provide more than 50 group Ids to the service subscriber.

The service can be offered with one subscription option:

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------
  **Subscription option**                                                               **Value**
  \- subscriber has the capability of initiating voice group calls in case of roaming   \- No
                                                                                        \- Yes.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------

5.2 Withdrawal
--------------

The VGCS is withdrawn at the service provider's request or for
administrative reasons.

5.3 Network related service configuration
-----------------------------------------

The network related service configuration defines the attributes of a
particular voice group call which shall be pre-registered in the network
by the service provider. This is not related to one specific service
subscriber.

The attributes of a particular voice group call are group ID, group call
area composition, a list of dispatcher identities to be connected to
this area, a list of dispatchers allowed to initiate voice group calls
to this area, the group call reference which shall be used in case of
COLP (see subclause 7.3) and recipient identities to which an optional
acknowledgement can be routed. Changes to the group call area
composition shall be co-ordinated with the network operator.

### 5.3.1 Void

5.4 Normal operation for voice group call establishment
-------------------------------------------------------

The VGCS shall be automatically initiated by the network when a calling
service subscriber or calling dispatcher dials a particular short code
or address at call set-up.

On successful initiation of the VGCS, the voice group call shall be
established between the calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher
and the destination subscribers. The destination subscribers are:

\- all destination service subscribers at any time during the voice
group call with the corresponding active group ID when located in the
group call area where the group call area is uniquely defined by:

\- the location (radio cell) of the calling service subscriber at
invocation if the call is originated by a calling service subscriber;

\- the addressed group call area if the call is originated by a calling
dispatcher;

\- the pre-registered destination dispatchers related to that group call
area and group ID.

The calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher shall be informed
by the network with a suitable indication about the successful
establishment of the voice group call so that the user can start to
speak.

The call can be released by the calling service subscriber or by the
calling dispatcher or by the network or by an entitled dispatcher
predefined in the network.

Destination subscribers may exit the voice group call separately without
releasing the complete voice group call.

5.5 Charging requirements
-------------------------

Event data may be recorded as a network option as defined in
3GÂ TSÂ 32.005 for all VGCS calls to one group ID in a specific group call
area. In addition other data to be passed to the anchor MSC for charging
purposes are the identities of the talking subscribers, the time in
which they were active and the resources (i.e. cell identities) used
during a call.

5.6 Security requirements
-------------------------

VGCS shall be able to support over-the-air ciphering in order to provide
confidentiality protection to group calls.

VGCS ciphering is an operator's option.

VGCS shall provide means such that only a legitimate service subscriber
is able to participate in a ciphered VGCS call when the operator
requires confidentiality protection for the group call. To include a
subscriber into a ciphered voice group the required group data shall be
stored on the USIM. Storing these group data on the USIM may be done
e.g. during the USIM personalisation process or via OTA (over-the-air)
provisioning.

> \- If the operator configures confidentiality protection for p-t-p SMS
> over the CS domain then, it shall also apply when a p-t-p SMS is sent/
> received by VGCS group call members in parallel to the voice group
> call.
>
> \- If the operator configures confidentiality protection for the group
> call then, confidentiality protection at least equivalent to that
> provided for the ongoing group call shall apply when a group call
> member sends a SMS to the group call.
>
> \- If the operator configures confidentiality protection for p-t-p SMS
> over the CS domain then, it shall also apply to a SMS which is sent by
> a group call member to a different group, in parallel to the voice
> group call.
>
> \- If the operator configures confidentiality protection for the group
> call then, confidentiality protection at least equivalent to that
> provided for the ongoing group call shall apply when a SMS is
> delivered to group call members,

A pre- Rel-6 VGCS capable mobile shall be able to participate in an
un-ciphered group call, if it is part of that group.

An operator shall be able to guarantee privacy for a SMS sent by a group
call member to a different group. This ensures that the SMS cannot be
intercepted by members of the sender's group.

6 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
================================================

If a service subscriber wants to establish a voice group call while not
subscribed to the service or the network cannot provide the service for
some reason, an indication will be provided to the calling service
subscriber to notify him of the reason of failure.

If a dispatcher wants to establish a voice group call while not entitled
to do it or the network cannot provide the service for some reason, the
call shall be rejected. The network shall give an appropriate indication
to calling dispatchers who are GSM subscribers.

A voice group call will be considered established as soon as the
originating cell in case of a service subscriber originated voice group
call or any one cell within the group call area in case of a dispatcher
originated voice group call has been included . If this cannot be
achieved within a specified time the call will be released.

If a cell is excluded from the group call area because of pre-emption,
the voice group call shall be maintained.

7 Interaction with other GSM services
=====================================

7.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
---------------------------------------------------

If CLIP is applied, the group call reference -- including the group call
area ID and the group ID -- shall be presented to the destination
dispatchers. In addition the subaddress field of the calling party may
be used to identify the calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher
to the destination dispatchers.

The receiving mobile stations of the destination service subscribers
shall display the paged group ID regardless the destination service
subscribers have a subscription to CLIP.

7.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
--------------------------------------------------

CLIR shall be supported.

The network shall have the possibility to override CLIR or reject the
request to establish a voice group call for a calling service subscriber
or calling dispatcher who has CLIR activated.

7.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
-----------------------------------------------------

If COLP is applied, the group call reference -- including the group call
area ID and the group ID -- shall be presented to the calling
dispatcher. No destination subscriber identities will be presented.

Calling service subscribers receive the group call reference via
standard group call setup messaging. COLP therefore does not apply to
service subscribers.

7.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
----------------------------------------------------

COLR is not applicable to voice group calls.

7.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
---------------------------------------

CFU is not applicable to voice group calls of service subscribers when
activate and operative, i.e. CFU shall be ignored.

CFU is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice group calls are forwarded
by CFU.

7.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
---------------------------------------------------

CFB is not applicable to voice group calls of service subscribers with
CFB active and operative.

CFB is applicable for dispatchers if the voice group call does not have
a higher priority than the present call.

7.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
---------------------------------------

CFNRy is not applicable to voice group calls of service subscribers with
CFNRy active and operative.

CFNRy is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice group calls are
forwarded by CFNRy.

7.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
--------------------------------------------------------------

CFNRc is not applicable to voice group calls of service subscribers with
CFNRc active and operative.

CFNRc is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice group calls are
forwarded by CFNRc.

7.9 Call Waiting (CW)
---------------------

CW is not applicable for service subscribers. Instead, as a network
option, a notification of paging for other calls shall be given to the
service subscribers involved in the voice group call.

CW is applicable for dispatchers. Subject to the capabilities of the UE
and the serving network it shall be possible for a dispatcher to receive
additional information of the talker when accepting a waiting voice
group call.

Subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving network it shall
be possible for a dispatcher to receive an emergency indication for a
waiting voice group call.

7.10 Call Hold (HOLD)
---------------------

Call hold is not applicable for service subscribers. For handling of
parallel group calls to the same destination subscriber see item i) of
clause 4.

The acceptance of a voice group call by a service subscriber while being
in a point-to-point call shall release the point-to-point call. This
release will be invoked by the mobile station.

If a voice group call is requested by a service subscriber while being
in a point-to-point call, the point-to-point call shall be released.
This release will be invoked by the mobile station.

Call hold is applicable for dispatchers. Subject to the capabilities of
the UE and the serving network it shall be possible for a dispatcher to
receive additional information of the talker when retrieving a held
voice group call.

Subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving network it shall
be possible for a dispatcher to receive an emergency indication and an
indication that the emergency situation has ended for a held voice group
call.

7.11 Multi-party Service (MPTY)
-------------------------------

MPTY is not applicable for service subscribers.

MPTY is applicable for dispatchers, subject to the capabilities of the
UE and the serving network.

7.12 Closed User Group (CUG)
----------------------------

CUG is not applicable for service subscribers. Consequently, being a
member of a CUG has no impact on receiving and establishing voice group
calls.

CUG is applicable for dispatchers. Therefore a dispatcher who is a
member of a CUG may be excluded from originating, joining and receiving
group calls subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving
network.

7.13 Advice of Charge (AoC)
---------------------------

AoC is not applicable.

7.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC)
-----------------------------------------

BAOC is applicable, if subscribed to, with the possible exception of
high priority voice group calls.

7.15 Barring of Outgoing International Calls (BOIC)
---------------------------------------------------

BOIC is not applicable for voice group calls of service subscribers.

BOIC is applicable for dispatchers.

7.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those to the Home PLMN country (BOIC-exHC)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOIC-exHC is not applicable for voice group calls of service
subscribers.

BOIC-exHC is applicable for dispatchers.

7.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC)
-----------------------------------------

BAIC is not applicable for voice group calls to service subscribers.

BAIC is applicable for dispatchers.

7.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming outside the home PLMN country (BIC-Roam)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BIC-Roam is not applicable for voice group calls to service subscribers.

BIC-Roam is applicable for dispatchers.

7.19 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
---------------------------------

ECT is not applicable for service subscribers.

ECT is applicable for dispatchers, subject to the capabilities of the UE
and the serving network.

Note: Dispatcher rights may not be transferred.

7.20 Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service (eMLPP)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Different priorities with corresponding set-up procedures are applicable
as defined in the stage 1 description of eMLPP in 3GÂ TSÂ 22.067.

7.21 Short Message Service (SMS)
--------------------------------

Subject to capabilities of the UE and the serving network, it shall be
possible for the talking service subscriber, the listening service
subscriber or dispatcher in a voice group call as well as for other
initiators of short messages that are not part of the voice group call
to send short messages to the group call -- addressed by the group call
reference - for which delivery will be attempted only one time i.e.
there is no re-try mechanism for short messages to group calls.

It shall be possible for the VGCS service provider to configure the
short message service to a particular group in such a way that short
messages to established group calls are either supported or not
supported. If supported then the message shall be delivered immediately
to the established group call.

A receipt confirmation, containing the group call reference of the voice
group call, may be returned to the sender of the short message. However
no receipt confirmation shall be returned by individual members of the
voice group call.

Optionally the VGCS may trigger an SMS being sent back to the sender,
containing information as to whether or not the group call was
established at time of sending.

Subject to capabilities of the UE, service subscribers who have
activated the group ID and are currently in the established group call
shall be able to receive the content of short messages sent to the group
call.

Subject to capabilities of the UE and the serving network, dispatchers
who are connected to the group call, shall be able to receive the
content of short messages sent to the group call.

The terminal shall treat the received content in the same way as if it
would have been received by the normal SMS mechanism.

During an ongoing group call it shall be possible for the talker as well
as the listener to send and receive point to point short messages.

Support of Short Message Service is optional in VGCS.

7.22 Operator Determined Barring (ODB)
--------------------------------------

Same as for subscriber controlled barring.

7.23 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscribers (CCBS)
---------------------------------------------------

The CCBS supplementary service is only applicable for dispatchers and
not for VGCS service subscribers.

If a new terminating p-t-p call is set up to a dispatcher who is busy
because of an active VGCS call, it shall be possible to allow the
calling party to apply the CCBS service. If the dispatcher initiates a
VGCS call and the called group ID has been active, then the dispatcher
shall be connected to the ongoing VGCS call.

7.24 GPRS
---------

Depending on the capabilities of the UE it shall be possible for the
mobile dispatcher, the talking service subscriber as well as for the
listening service subscriber to use GPRS in parallel to the VGCS subject
to the capabilities of the serving network.

8 Interworking considerations
=============================

No specific requirements are identified.

######## Annex A (informative): Change History

  --------- ----------- ------------ ---------------- ------ ----- ------- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ----------
  TSG\#     TSG doc     WG doc       Spec             CR     Rev   Ph      Cat   Title                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Old vers       New vers        WI
  S\#28                 March 1999   02.68            A010         R99           Information required for charging for Group calls: To enable SMG3 to complete 09.02 with regard to the specification of information to be passed between the serving MSC and the anchor MSC for Group calls. Specification version upgrade to Release 1999 version 8.0.0   5.2.0          8.0.0           
  S\#32                 June 1999    02.68            A013         R00           Introduction of Originator-to-dispatcher information into VGCS                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.0.0          9.0.0           
                                     02.68 / 42.068                              Conversion to 3GPP TS format                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               02.68 v9.0.0   42.068 v4.0.0   \-
  SP-10     SP-000550                42.068           001          Rel-4   A     Correction of implementation of Clarification of interaction with CCBS service                                                                                                                                                                                             4.0.1          4.1.0           Correct
  SP-16     SP-020267   S1-021043    42.068                        Rel-5         Updated from Rel-4 to Rel5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.1.0          5.0.0           
                                                                                 Title line now shows correct version and date.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.0.0          5.0.1           
  SP-25     SP-040508   S1-040643    42.068           002    \-    Rel-6   B     Addition of optional over-the-air ciphering for VGCS                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.0.1          6.0.0           SECGKYV
  SP-25     SP-040512   S1-040707    42.068           003    \-    Rel-7   B     VGCS support of service provider specific end-to-end encryption                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0.1          7.0.0           EGCS
  SP-25     SP-040512   S1-040725    42.068           004    1     Rel-7   B     Sending of SMS to an ongoing Voice Group Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.0.1          7.0.0           EGCS
  SP-25     SP-040512   S1-040728    42.068           005    \-    Rel-7   B     Enhanced talker functionality for VGCS for the support of emergency situations                                                                                                                                                                                             5.0.1          7.0.0           EGCS
  SP-26     SP-040738   S1-040948    42.068           006    \-    Rel-7   F     Sending SMS to a Voice Group Call                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7.0.0          7.1.0           EGCS
  SP-27     SP-050174   \-           42.068           008    2     Rel-7   B     Sending an SMS to a Group                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.1.0          7.2.0           EGCS
  SP-28     SP-050209   S1-050477    42.068           012    \-    Rel-7   A     Correction on the use of calling subscriber and destination subscriber                                                                                                                                                                                                     7.2.0          7.3.0           ASCI
  SP-28     SP-050224   S1-050491    42.068           013    \-    Rel-7   B     Sending or receiving of short messages in parallel to an active group call                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.2.0          7.3.0           EGCS
  SP-28     SP-050224   S1-050492    42.068           014    \-    Rel-7   B     Support of the use of GPRS for individual VGCS subscribers in parallel to an active group call                                                                                                                                                                             7.2.0          7.3.0           EGCS
  SP-28     SP-050224   S1-050493    42.068           015    \-    Rel-7   F     Addressing SMS to a Group                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.2.0          7.3.0           EGCS
  SP-28     SP-050224   S1-050528    42.068           016    \-    Rel-7   F     Clarification on requirements for talker change                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.2.0          7.3.0           EVGCS
  SP-29     SP-050525   S1-050794    42.068           0017   \-    Rel-7   C     Emergency indication to dispatchers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.3.0          7.4.0           EGCS
  SP-29     SP-050525   S1-050795    42.068           0018   \-    Rel-7   C     Sending additional information to dispatchers                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.3.0          7.4.0           EGCS
  SP-31     SP-060026   S1-060196    42.068           0019   \-    Rel-7   C     EPRT - Modification to setup to remove the need for full conditions                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.4.0          7.5.0           EGCS
  SP-31     SP-060026   S1-060198    42.068           0020   \-    Rel-7   C     EPRT - Modification to allow delivery of SMS messages to users not in the actual group call                                                                                                                                                                                7.4.0          7.5.0           EGCS
  SP-31     SP-060037   S1-060201    42.068           0021   \-    Rel-8   B     Enhancements for VGCS Applications                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.4.0          8.0.0           VGCS-App
  SP-32     SP-060306   S1-060580    42.068           0024   \-    Rel-8   B     Requirement for listener identification                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.0.0          8.1.0           EGCS
  SP-32     SP-060306   S1-060584    42.068           0025   \-    Rel-8   C     Additional requirements for transfer of application-specific data                                                                                                                                                                                                          8.0.0          8.1.0           EVA
  SP-32     SP-060306   S1-060635    42.068           0026   \-    Rel-8   C     Enhancement for emergency situation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.0.0          8.1.0           EGCS
  SP-33     SP-060464   S1-060932    42.068           0028   \-    Rel-8   A     Data confidentiality for SMS during voice group calls                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.1.0          8.2.0           EVGCS
  SP-33     SP-060473   S1-060933    42.068           0029   \-    Rel-8   A     Increasing maximum number of dispatchers to 20 as an optional requirement                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.1.0          8.2.0           EVGCS
  SP-33     SP-060511   S1-061012    42.068           0031   \-    Rel-8   A     Privacy for a group SMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.1.0          8.2.0           EVGCS
  SP-34     SP-060769   S1-061315    42.068           0032   \-    Rel-8   C     Restrict Group call area for transfer of time-critical application-specific data                                                                                                                                                                                           8.2.0          8.3.0           EVA
  SP-34     SP-060774   S1-061316    42.068           0033   \-    Rel-8   F     Correction on the use of 'listener' and 'talker'                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.2.0          8.3.0           TEI8
  SP-35     SP-070112   S1-070265    42.068           0036   1     Rel-8   A     Removal of requirement for Speech encryption for voice group calls                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.3.0          8.4.0           EVGCS
  SP-37     SP-070645   S1-071104    42.068           37     1     Rel-8   C     TCRT: Clarification of interactions with supplementary and other GSM services                                                                                                                                                                                              8.4.0          8.5.0           TEI8
  SP-38     SP-070849   S1-071644    42.068           0039   \-    Rel-8   F     TCRT: Removal of the support of long application-specific data                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.5.0          8.6.0           EVA
  SP-38     SP-070849   S1-071829    42.068           0038   1     Rel-8   F     TCRT: Align the stage 1 to the stage 2 on SMS to established group calls                                                                                                                                                                                                   8.5.0          8.6.0           EVA
  SP-39     SP-080033   S1-080300    42.068           0041   2     Rel-8   F     TCRT: Tidy up text related to sending SMS to non established group calls                                                                                                                                                                                                   8.6.0          8.7.0           EVA
  SP-46     \-          \-           \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-9 by MCC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.7.0          9.0.0           
  2011-03   \-          \-           \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.0.0          10.0.0          
  2012-09   \-          \-           \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-11 by MCC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.0.0         11.0.0          
  2014-10                                                                        Updated to Rel-12 by MCC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.0.0         12.0.0          
  2015-12   \-          \-           \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-13 by MCC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12.0.0         13.0.0          
  2017-03   \-          \-           \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-14 by MCC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13.0.0         14.0.0          
  2018-06   \-          \-           \-               \-     \-    \-      \-    Updated to Rel-15 by MCC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14.0.0         15.0.0          
  --------- ----------- ------------ ---------------- ------ ----- ------- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ----------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                    
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**        **New version**
  2020-07              SA\#88e       \-         \-       \-        \-        Updated to Rel-16 by MCC   16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------- -----------------
