Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#enhanced-multi-level-precedence-and-pre-emption-emlpp)

[7](#normal-operation)

[7](#mobile-originated-calls)

[9](#mobile-terminated-calls)

[9](#called-party-pre-emption-for-mobile-terminated-calls)

[9](#group-call-or-broadcast-call-calling-mobile-station-gsm-only)

[11](#group-or-broadcast-call-called-mobile-stations-gsm-only)

[11](#registration)

[11](#erasure)

[12](#activation-deactivation)

[12](#interrogation)

[13](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) 4.1 Normal
operation 4.1.1 Mobile originated calls 4.1.2 Mobile terminated calls
4.1.3 Called party pre-emption for mobile terminated calls 4.1.4 Group
call or broadcast call, calling mobile station (GSM only) 4.1.5 Group or
broadcast call, called mobile stations (GSM only) 4.2 Registration 4.3
Erasure 4.4 Activation, deactivation 4.5 Interrogation Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio
interface (Reference point Um for GSM and Reference point Uu for UMTS as
defined in TS 24.002) for normal operation, invocation, registration and
interrogation of the enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
Service (eMLPP) supplementary service. Provision and withdrawal of
supplementary services is an administrative matter between the mobile
subscriber and the service provider and cause no signalling on the radio
interface.

In TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.

TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in TS
22.004 and TS 22.08x and22.09x -series. TS 22.067 is related specially
to eMLPP.

Technical realization of supplementary services is described in TS
23.011 and TS 23.08x and 23.09x -series.

TS 23.067 is related specially to eMLPP.

The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management at the layer 3
radio interface are defined in TS 24.007 and TS 24.008.

The procedure for Radio Resource management at layer 3 radio interface
is defined in 3GPP TS 44.018 and TS 25.331.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Abbreviations and acronyms\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.067: \" enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption
service (eMLPP) ‑ Stage 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"; Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 23.083: \" Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 22.084: \" MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"; Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services
‑ Stage 1\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 22.086: \" Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 22.088: \" Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 22.090: \" Stage 1 description of Unstructured
Supplementary Service Data (USSD)\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 22.092: \" Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 22.011: \" Technical realization of supplementary
services\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.067: \" enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and
Pre‑emption service (eMLPP) ‑ Stage 2\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 43.068: \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) ‑ Stage 2\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 43.069: \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) ‑ Stage 2\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 23.081: \" Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 23.082: \" Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 23.083: \" Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 23.084: \" MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 23.085: \" Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services
‑ Stage 2\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 23.089: \" Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services
‑ Stage 2\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 23.088: \" Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[24\] 3GPP TS 23.090: \" Unstructured supplementary services operation
‑ Stage 2\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 23.091: \" Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary
service ‑ Stage 2\".

\[26\] 3GPP TS 24.002: \" GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".

\[27\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \" Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3;
General aspects\".

\[28\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3
specification\".

\[29\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary
services specification; General aspects\".

\[30\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary
services specification Formats and coding\".

\[31\] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\"

\[32\] 3GPP TS 25.331: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification;
RRC Protocol Specification\"

\[33\] 3GPP TS 44.018: \" Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio Resource
Control Protocol \"

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

Definitions used in the present document are defined in 3GPP TS 22.067
and 3GPP TS 23.067.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM 01.04 and
3GPP TS 21.905.

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

eMLPP enhanced MLPP

MLPP Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption

VBS Voice Broadcast Service

VGCS Voice Group Call Service

4 enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP)
=========================================================

4.1 Normal operation
--------------------

NOTE: In the call related messages only the additional information for
the eMLPP supplementary service is shown in the figures.

### 4.1.1 Mobile originated calls

The mobile station can indicate the priority of each call initiated. If
no priority is indicated by the user or a non-compatible mobile station
is used then the default priority level shall be applied which is stored
in the VLR. The selection of priority shall be an MMI function.

For mobile originated calls in GSM mode in GSM mode, the corresponding
message flows are shown in figure 1.1.

MS Network

IMM\_ASS

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

SABM (CM\_SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

UA (CM\_SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

AUTH\_REQ

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

AUTH\_RES

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CIPH\_MOD\_CMD

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

CIPH\_MOD\_COM

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CALL\_PROCEEDING (PriorityLevel)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 1.1: Signalling information required for the prioritisation at
mobile originating call establishment (in GSM mode)

**IMM\_ASS:** Standard GSM Radio resource management message which is
sent if no RR connection was already established.

**SABM (CM\_SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel)):** L3-MM CM SERVICE REQUEST where
the priority level information element is provided in addition if a
priority selection is performed by the user. In case of no priority
selection or use of a non-compatible mobile station the mobile station
shall send a service request message without priority level information
element and the network shall apply a default priority to the request.
The message may be piggybacked in a SABM if no RR connection was already
established.

**UA (CM\_SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel):** Standard message to acknowledge
the layer 2 link which is sent if no RR connection was already
established. The priority level is the same as received by the network.

**AUTH\_REQ:** Standard message which is sent if the network applies
authentication as shown in figure 1.1. If not, the network will sent a
standard CM\_SERVICE\_ACCEPT message.

**AUTH\_RES:** Standard message which is sent if the network applies
authentication.

**CIPH\_MOD\_CMD:** Standard message which is sent if the network
applies ciphering as shown in figure 1.1.

**CIPH\_MOD\_COM:** Standard message which is sent if the network
applies ciphering.

**SETUP:** Standard message.

**CALL\_PROCEEDING**: The network shall include the assigned priority
level in a CALL\_PROCEEDING, when the network supports priority.

For mobile originated calls in UMTS mode, the corresponding message
flows are shown in figure 1.2.

MS Network

RRC CONNECTION SETUP COMPLETE

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CM\_SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

AUTH\_REQ

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

AUTH\_RES

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

SECURITY\_MODE\_COMMAND

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

SECURITY\_MODE\_COMPLETE

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CALL\_PROCEEDING (PriorityLevel)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 1.2: Signalling information required for the prioritisation at
mobile originating call establishment (in UMTS mode)

**RRC CONNECTION SETUP COMPLETE:** Standard UMTS Radio resource
management message which is sent to confirm the establishment of the RRC
Connection by the UE.

**CM\_SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel):** L3-MM CM SERVICE REQUEST where the
priority level information element is provided in addition if a priority
selection is performed by the user. In case of no priority selection or
use of a non-compatible mobile station the mobile station shall send a
service request message without priority level information element and
the network shall apply a default priority to the request.

**AUTH\_REQ:** Standard message.

**AUTH\_RES:** Standard message.

**SECURITY\_MODE\_COMMAND:** Standard message.

**SECURITY\_MODE\_COMPLETE:** Standard message.

**SETUP:** Standard message.

**CALL\_PROCEEDING**: The network shall include the assigned priority
level in a CALL\_PROCEEDING message. If the MS has indicated the
priority in the CM\_SERVICE\_REQUEST message and if no priority level is
included in the CALL\_PROCEEDING message, then the MS shall assume that
the network doesn\'t support priority.

### 4.1.2 Mobile terminated calls

For a mobile terminated call the priority level is indicated by the
calling subscriber if MLPP is used. The mobile station may be paged in
the normal manner, but with the paging messages also containing the
priority level of the call. In addition, the priority level shall be
included in the set-up message.

NOTE: Mobile stations in idle mode which are going to respond to a
paging message do not need to analyse the priority level in the paging
request message but can take the priority level provided in the set-up
message. In GSM, mobile stations in group receive mode or an MS in
class-B mode that communicates on GPRS radio channels when a dedicated
channel is neededneed to analyse the priority level in the paging
request message in order to decide to respond to the paging request.
(see TS 23.060 subsection \'GPRS and Dedicated Mode Priority Handling\')

MS Network

PAG\_REQ (PriorityLevel)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

SETUP (PriorityLevel)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 2: Signalling information required for the prioritisation at
mobile terminating call establishment without called-party pre-emption.

**PAG\_REQ**: Paging message including the related priority level to be
applied. (GSM only)

**SETUP**: Modified SETUP message with an indication of the priority
level.

### 4.1.3 Called party pre-emption for mobile terminated calls

In the case where the called subscriber has a subscription for eMLPP and
for CW, the mobile station shall be informed of the priority of the new
call together with the CW indication. On reception of the set-up message
the compatible mobile station decides on called party pre-emption. If
called party pre-emption applies, the mobile station shall automatically
accept the waiting call and send a hold message to the network. If a
hold acknowledge is received, the waiting call is accepted. If a hold
reject is received for any reason, e.g. there is no subscription for
hold, the other call shall be released and the waiting call accepted. If
the ongoing call is not a TS11 call, the mobile station should not send
a hold message to the network but release the call and accept the
waiting call.

If no pre-emption applies or the called party is using a non compatible
mobile station, CW will be used as normal.

MS Network

SETUP (PriorityLevel)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 3: Signalling information required for the called-party
pre-emption in case of use of a compatible mobile station

**SETUP**: Modified SETUP message with an indication of the priority
level.

### 4.1.4 Group call or broadcast call, calling mobile station (GSM only)

Within each set of voice group call or voice broadcast call attributes
stored in the GCR as defined in 3GPP TS 43.068 and 3GPP TS 43.069,
respectively, a priority level is included if eMLPP is applied. The
priority level will be provided by the GCR to the MSC together with the
call attributes.

For VGCS or VBS establishment, the calling mobile station may indicate a
priority level in the service request as in subclause 4.1.1. This
priority level can be applied for the dedicated link of the calling
mobile station as long as no different priority level in provided by the
GCR. If this happens, the priority level provided by the GCR shall also
be applied to the dedicated link of the calling mobile station.

MS Network

IMM\_ASS

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

SABM (SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

UA (SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

AUTH\_REQ

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

AUTH\_RES

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CIPH\_MOD\_CMD

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

CIPH\_MOD\_COM

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CONNECT (GroupCallReference (PriorityLevel))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 4: Signalling information between the network and the calling
mobile station required for the prioritisation in case of a VGCS or VBS
call

**IMM\_ASS:** Standard message which is sent if no RR connection was
already established.

**SABM (SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel)):** L3-MM CM SERVICE REQUEST where the
priority level information element is provided in addition if a priority
selection is performed by the user. In case of no priority selection or
use of a non-compatible mobile station the mobile station shall send a
service request message without priority level information element and
the network shall apply a default priority to the request. The message
may be piggybacked in a SABM if no RR connection was already
established.

**UA (SERV\_REQ (PriorityLevel)):** Standard message to acknowledge the
layer 2 link which is sent if no RR connection was already established.
The priority level is the same as received by the network.

**AUTH\_REQ:** Standard message which is sent if the network applies
authentication as shown in figure 4. If not, the network will sent a
standard CM\_SERVICE\_ACCEPT message.

**AUTH\_RES:** Standard message which is sent if the network applies
authentication.

**CIPH\_MOD\_CMD:** Standard message which is sent if the network
applies ciphering as shown in figure 4.

**CIPH\_MOD\_COM:** Standard message which is sent if the network
applies ciphering.

**SETUP:** Standard message.

**CONNECT**: Information to the mobile station that the VGCS or VBS call
is established with the related group or broadcast call reference as the
connected number. The group or broadcast call reference includes the
priority level applied for the group or broadcast call in the network.
This priority level can be different to the one indicated in the
CM\_SERVICE\_REQUEST.

### 4.1.5 Group or broadcast call, called mobile stations (GSM only)

Within each set of voice group call or voice broadcast call attributes
stored in the GCR as defined in 3GPP TS 43.068 and 3GPP TS 43.069,
respectively, a priority level is included if eMLPP is applied. The
priority level will be provided by the GCR to the MSC together with the
call attributes.

The priority level shall be indicated together with the related
notification messages and treated in the mobile station as defined in
3GPP TS 43.068 and 3GPP TS 43.069, respectively.

MS Network

NOTIFICATION (GroupCallReference (PriorityLevel))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 5: Signalling information between the network and the called
mobile stations required for the prioritisation in case of a VGCS or VBS
call

**NOTIFICATION**: L3 RR message NOTIFICATION/NCH\_TYPE1 or
NOTIFICATION/NCH\_TYPE2 or NOTIFICATION/FACCH or NOTIFICATION/SACCH
containing a group call reference or broadcast call reference of a
notified voice group or broadcast call which includes a related priority
level for that call.

4.2 Registration
----------------

The default eMLPP priority level has to be registered in the network:

An eMLPP registration request from a mobile user shall include the
SS-Code of the eMLPP service and the default priority level.

If the registration is successful, the default eMLPP priority level will
be registered. The network will then send a return result indicating
acceptance of the request, including the default eMLPP priority level.

If the system cannot accept a registration request, a corresponding
error indication is returned to the served mobile subscriber that eMLPP
registration was not successful. Error values are specified in
GSM 04.80.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = RegisterSS (eMLPP, DefaultPriorityLevel))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = RegisterSS (DefaultPriorityLevel))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 6: Registration default priority level

4.3 Erasure
-----------

A previous registration can be erased in one of two ways:

\- the subscriber can register information for eMLPP for a new default
priority level, thus causing the previous registration of eMLPP to be
overridden;

\- all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the
supplementary service (administrative handling).

4.4 Activation, deactivation
----------------------------

Activation and deactivation of the supplementary service enhanced
Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption are not applicable.

4.5 Interrogation
-----------------

The interrogation procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about data stored in the PLMN. The eMLPP service subscriber
may interrogate the maximum priority level he can use and the actual
default priority level.

If the service is provisioned, the network shall sent a return result
including the SS-Status parameter and the maximum priority level which
the service subscriber is allowed to use and the actual default priority
level.

If the service is not provisioned, the network shall send a return
result including the SS-Status parameter.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (eMLPP))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS

(SS-Status, MaximumPriorityLevel, DefaultPriorityLevel))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 7: Interrogation of the maximum and default priority levels

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- ------- ----------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR      \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.67                                     Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.067                          3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#10     24.067      001r1   R99         3.1.0         eMLPP correction for GSM/UMTS use
  CN\#10     24.067      002r3   R99         3.1.0         The accepted priority in the call proceeding message for GSM and UMTS
  CN\#11     24.067              Rel-4       4.0.0         Release 4 after CN\#11
  CN\#12     24.067      005     Rel-4       4.1.0         Remove the statement when MS receives no priority granted
  CN\#16     24.067              Rel-5       5.0.0         Release 5 after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.067              Rel-6       6.0.0         Release 6 after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.067              Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.067              Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  2009-12    24.067      \-      Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.067      \-      Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.067      \-      Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.067      \-      Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.067      \-      Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.067      \-      Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.067      \-      Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.067      \-      Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- ------- ----------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
