![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.198611111111111in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#multiparty-service-mpty)

[6](#beginning-the-multiparty-service)

[7](#managing-an-active-multiparty-call)

[7](#served-mobile-subscriber)

[8](#put-the-multiparty-call-on-hold)

[8](#create-a-private-communication-with-one-of-the-remote-parties)

[9](#terminate-the-entire-multiparty-call)

[9](#explicitly-disconnect-a-remote-party)

[9](#remote-parties)

[9](#release-from-the-multiparty-call)

[9](#place-his-connection-to-the-multiparty-call-on-hold-and-typically-later-retrieve-it)

[9](#managing-a-held-multiparty-call)

[9](#served-mobile-subscriber-1)

[10](#retrieve-the-held-multiparty-call)

[10](#initiate-a-new-call)

[10](#process-a-call-waiting-request)

[10](#terminate-the-held-multiparty-call)

[10](#explicitly-disconnect-a-remote-party-1)

[10](#remote-parties-1)

[11](#managing-a-single-call-and-a-multiparty-call)

[11](#served-mobile-subscriber-2)

[11](#disconnect-the-single-call)

[11](#disconnect-the-mpty)

[11](#disconnect-all-calls)

[11](#add-the-single-call-to-the-mpty)

[11](#alternate-between-the-mpty-call-and-the-single-call)

[12](#adding-extra-remote-parties)

[12](#auxiliary-states-for-mpty)

[13](#activation-deactivation-registration-erasure-and-interrogation)

[13](#simultaneous-use-of-multiparty-operations)

[14](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 0 Scope 0.1 References
0.2 Abbreviations 1 MultiParty service (MPTY) 1.1 Beginning the
MultiParty service 1.2 Managing an active MultiParty call 1.2.1 Served
mobile subscriber 1.2.1.1 Put the MultiParty call on hold 1.2.1.2 Create
a private communication with one of the remote parties 1.2.1.3 Terminate
the entire MultiParty call 1.2.1.4 Explicitly disconnect a remote party
1.2.2 Remote Parties 1.2.2.1 Release from the MultiParty call 1.2.2.2
Place his connection to the MultiParty call on hold, and typically later
retrieve it 1.3 Managing a held MultiParty call 1.3.1 Served mobile
subscriber 1.3.1.1 Retrieve the held MultiParty call 1.3.1.2 Initiate a
new call 1.3.1.3 Process a call waiting request 1.3.1.4 Terminate the
held MultiParty call 1.3.1.5 Explicitly disconnect a remote party 1.3.2
Remote parties 1.4 Managing a single call and a MultiParty call 1.4.1
Served mobile subscriber 1.4.1.1 Disconnect the single call 1.4.1.2
Disconnect the MPTY 1.4.1.3 Disconnect all calls 1.4.1.4 Add the single
call to the MPTY 1.4.1.5 Alternate between the MPTY call and the single
call 1.5 Adding extra remote parties 1.6 Auxiliary states for MPTY 1.7
Activation, deactivation, registration, erasure and interrogation 1.8
Simultaneous use of MultiParty operations Annex A (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation and invocation of MultiParty supplementary services within the
3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

0 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio
interface (Reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal
operation and invocation of MultiParty supplementary services.

In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.

3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP
TS 22.004 and the 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series.

3GPP TS 22.084 is related specially to MultiParty supplementary
services.

Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS
23.011 and the 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series.

3GPP TS 23.084 is related specially to MultiParty supplementary
services.

The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007
and 3GPP TS 24.008.

The following supplementary service belongs to the MultiParty
supplementary services and is described in the present document:

\- MultiParty service (MPTY) (clause 1).

0.1 References
--------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services -
Stage 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services -
Stage 1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services - Stage 1\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services -
Stage 1\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services -
Stage 1\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of charge (AoC) supplementary services -
Stage 1\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services -
Stage 1\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Services Data (USSD)
- Stage 1\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary
services\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services -
Stage 2\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services -
Stage 2\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services - Stage 2\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services -
Stage 2\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services
- Stage 2\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services -
Stage 2\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services -
Stage 2\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation -
Stage 2\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)
Access Reference Configuration\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary
services specification\".

\[24\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary
services specification; Formats and coding\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 24.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services - Stage 3\".

0.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.

1 MultiParty service (MPTY)
===========================

1.1 Beginning the MultiParty service
------------------------------------

The served mobile subscriber A may initiate an active MultiParty call
from an active call C and a held call B.

The mobile station invokes the service by sending a FACILITY message to
the network containing the BuildMPTY request. This BuildMPTY request
indicates to the network that the mobile subscriber wishes all his calls
to be connected together in a MultiParty call. The network will normally
accept the request and connect the mobile subscriber with the other
existing connections (active call C and held call B). If the request is
not accepted, the network will indicate the error to the served mobile
(see figure 1.1). The network confirms with the same transaction
identifier. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

During the BuildMPTY operation the MS shall run a timer T(BuildMPTY).
This timer is started when the operation is sent, and stopped when a
response is received from the network. If this timer expires the MS
shall assume that the operation has failed, locally release the
invokeID, and may re-attempt the operation or inform the user of the
failure.

MS Network

FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = BuildMPTY)

FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result)

FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-B/A-C)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-B/A-C)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: A-B/A-C indicates a choice. The transaction identifier (TI) used
must be that of the active call or the held call.

Figure 1.1: Invocation of the MultiParty call

If the network received a non-zero SS Screening indicator from the
remote party\'s mobile station the network will also send indications
towards the remote parties that the MultiParty call has been invoked,
and towards the previously-held party to indicate that he is now
retrieved (see figures 1.2 and 1.3). If the network did not receive a
non-zero SS Screening indicator from the remote party\'s mobile station
it shall not send a notification.

B Network

FACILITY (TI A-B)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (HOLD, CallOnHold-indicator(CallRetrieved),

Invoke = NotifySS (MPTY, MPTYindicator))

NOTE: The CallOnHold notification (CallOnHold-indicator) sent to the
remote subscriber is the same as described in 3GPP TS 24.083.

Figure 1.2: Notification of invocation to previously-held remote party

C Network

FACILITY (TI A-C)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (MPTY, MPTYindicator))

Figure 1.3: Notification of invocation to previously-active remote party

The MSC Server controlling the server mobile subscriber A shall send an
ISUP CPG \'remote retrieval\' or/and \'conference established\'
notification towards a remote held party B, and may send an ISUP CPG
\'conference established\' notification towards a remote active party C.

NOTE: Sending a single ISUP CPG \'conference established\' notification
towards a remote held party is possible if the remote node is able to
derive the \'retrieve\' notification from the \'conference established\'
notification.

An incoming ISUP CPG \'remote retrieval\' notification shall be mapped
to a NotifySS (CallRetrieved) notification as specified above. An
incoming ISUP CPG \'conference established\' notification may be mapped
to a NotifySS (Call Retrieved) and a NotifySS (MPTY indicator) as
specified above.

1.2 Managing an active MultiParty call
--------------------------------------

### 1.2.1 Served mobile subscriber

During an active MultiParty call the served mobile subscriber can
request the network to:

#### 1.2.1.1 Put the MultiParty call on hold

This is achieved by sending a FACILITY message to the network with any
transaction identifier corresponding to a call within the MultiParty
call. This requests the network to place the mobile subscriber\'s
connection to the MultiParty call on hold. The network confirms with
another message containing **the same** transaction identifier (see
figure 1.4).

During the HoldMPTY operation the MS shall run a timer T(HoldMPTY). This
timer is started when the operation is sent, and stopped when a response
is received from the network. If this timer expires the MS shall assume
that the operation has failed, locally release the invokeID, and may
re-attempt the operation or inform the user of the failure.

MS Network

FACILITY (TI A-X)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = HoldMPTY)

FACILITY (TI A-X)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result)

FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-X)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-X)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: X = Any remote party in MultiParty call.

Figure 1.4: Served mobile subscriber places his connection to the
MultiParty call on hold

No CallOnHold notification (see 3GPP TS 24.083 \[25\]) shall be sent
towards the remote parties in the MultiParty call.

NOTE: Sending normal CallOnHold notification towards remote SIP parties
would prevent then from communicating any longer with the other parties.

#### 1.2.1.2 Create a private communication with one of the remote parties

To create a private communication with one of the remote parties, the
served mobile will send a SplitMPTY message to the network (see
figure 1.5).

The MSC Server controlling the server mobile subscriber A may send an
ISUP CPG \'other party split\' notification towards remote non-affected
conferees, and a notification \'Conference Disconnected\' towards a
remote affected conferee.

NOTE: An incoming ISUP CPG \'other party split\' and ISUP CPG
\'Conference Disconnected\' notifications are not mapped into any
NotifySS message.

During the SplitMPTY operation the MS shall run a timer T(SplitMPTY).
This timer is started when the operation is sent, and stopped when a
response is received from the network. If this timer expires the MS
shall assume that the operation has failed, locally release the
invokeID, and may re-attempt the operation or inform the user of the
failure.

MS Network

FACILITY (TI A-X)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = SplitMPTY)

FACILITY (TI A-X)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result)

FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-X)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-X)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: X = Party with which to establish a private communication.

Figure 1.5: Served mobile subscriber requests a private communication
with a single remote party

When adding back the split/affected party to the conference, the MSC
Server controlling the server mobile subscriber A shall send an ISUP CPG
\'conference established\' notification towards the affected party if an
earlier \'Conference Disconnected\' notification was sent, and an ISUP
CPG \'other party added\' notification towards the other remote parties
if an earlier \'other party split\' notification was sent.

#### 1.2.1.3 Terminate the entire MultiParty call

The MultiParty call is terminated by disconnecting all individual
parties as described in subclause 1.2.1.4.

#### 1.2.1.4 Explicitly disconnect a remote party

Any remote party may be individually disconnected by initiation of call
clearing as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 with the same transaction
identifier corresponding to that party.

### 1.2.2 Remote Parties

During an active MultiParty call any conferee is able to:

#### 1.2.2.1 Release from the MultiParty call

In this case, the network will initiate the call clearing procedure
towards the served mobile subscriber as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 with
the transaction identifier corresponding to the disconnecting party.

#### 1.2.2.2 Place his connection to the MultiParty call on hold, and typically later retrieve it

Where a held/retrieved indication is received from any remote party, the
network will forward this to the served mobile subscriber (see 3GPP TS
24.083).

1.3 Managing a held MultiParty call
-----------------------------------

### 1.3.1 Served mobile subscriber

During a held MultiParty call the served mobile subscriber can request
the network to:

#### 1.3.1.1 Retrieve the held MultiParty call

To retrieve the held MultiParty call, a FACILITY message is sent to the
network with a transaction identifier corresponding to any call in the
MPTY. The network confirms the retrieval with another message containing
**the same** transaction identifier (see figure 1.6).

During the RetrieveMPTY operation the MS shall run a timer
T(RetrieveMPTY). This timer is started when the operation is sent, and
stopped when a response is received from the network. If this timer
expires the MS shall assume that the operation has failed, locally
release the invokeID, and may re-attempt the operation or inform the
user of the failure.

MS Network

FACILITY (TI A-X)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = RetrieveMPTY)

FACILITY (TI A-X)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result)

FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-X)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-X)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: X = Any remote party in MultiParty call.

Figure 1.6: Served mobile subscriber retrieves MultiParty call

No CallRetrieved notification shall be sent towards the remote parties
in the MultiParty call.

#### 1.3.1.2 Initiate a new call

This is achieved by normal call set-up procedures (3GPP TS 24.008).

#### 1.3.1.3 Process a call waiting request

This is described in 3GPP TS 24.083.

#### 1.3.1.4 Terminate the held MultiParty call

This is achieved by the same procedure as in subclause 1.2.1.3.

#### 1.3.1.5 Explicitly disconnect a remote party

This is achieved by the same procedure as in subclause 1.2.1.4.

### 1.3.2 Remote parties

During a held MultiParty call any remote party is able to perform the
same operations as described for an active MultiParty call in
subclause 1.2.2.

1.4 Managing a single call and a MultiParty call
------------------------------------------------

### 1.4.1 Served mobile subscriber

If the served mobile subscriber is connected to a MultiParty call
(active or on hold) and another single call (active or on hold), he can
request the network to:

#### 1.4.1.1 Disconnect the single call

This is achieved by using the call clearing procedure as described in
3GPP TS 24.008 with the transaction identifier corresponding to the
single call.

#### 1.4.1.2 Disconnect the MPTY

This is achieved by the same procedure as disconnecting a held/active
MPTY without another call (see subclauses 1.2.1 and 1.3.1).

#### 1.4.1.3 Disconnect all calls

This is achieved by using the procedures in subclauses 1.4.1.1 and
1.4.1.2.

#### 1.4.1.4 Add the single call to the MPTY

The served mobile subscriber may request the connection of all his
calls, held and active, into an active MultiParty call at any time by
sending a FACILITY message with the transaction identifier corresponding
to any remote party and containing the BuildMPTY invoke component (see
subclause 1.1). This procedure will apply whether the MultiParty call is
on hold or active, and whether the single call is on hold or active.

If the request is successful, the new remote party, if previously held,
will receive a MPTY notification and a CallRetrieved notification as
shown in figure 1.2, and previously active remote parties will receive
an MPTY notification as shown in figure 1.3. If the network did not
receive a non-zero SS Screening indicator from the remote party\'s
mobile station it shall not send a notification.

The MSC Server controlling the server mobile subscriber A shall send an
ISUP CPG \'remote retrieval\' or/and \'conference established\'
notification towards a new remote held party; it may send an ISUP CPG
\'conference established\' notification towards a new remote active
party. It may also send an ISUP CPG \'other party added\' notification
towards the other remote parties.

NOTE: Sending a single ISUP CPG \'conference established\' notification
towards a new remote held party is possible if the remote node is able
to derive the \'retrieve\' notification from the \'conference
established\' notification.

An incoming ISUP CPG \'other party added\' notification may be mapped
into a NotifySS (MPTY indicator) as specified above.

If the request is unsuccessful e.g. because the maximum number of remote
parties has already been reached, then an error is returned to the
served mobile subscriber, as shown in figure 1.1. Error values are
specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

#### 1.4.1.5 Alternate between the MPTY call and the single call

This procedure follows the Alternate procedure defined in 3GPP TS 24.083
with the exception that the MPTY call is held/retrieved using
HoldMPTY/RetrieveMPTY in place of HOLD/RETRIEVE as follows:

  ---------------------- --------------------------
  **Single call**        **MPTY call** (Facility)
                         
  HOLD                   Invoke (HoldMPTY)
  HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE       Return result
  HOLD REJECT            Return error (error)
                         
  RETRIEVE               Invoke (RetrieveMPTY)
  RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE   Return result
  RETRIEVE REJECT        Return error (error)
  ---------------------- --------------------------

1.5 Adding extra remote parties
-------------------------------

Extra remote parties are added by placing the MultiParty call on hold
(subclause 1.2.1.1), setting up a new connection (either a new call or a
waiting call) and then sending a FACILITY message to the network
requesting that the active call be joined with the MPTY, using the same
signalling as for invocation (see figure 1.1). This results in an active
MultiParty call.

Notifications are sent as for the initial invocation (i.e. the new
remote party, if previously held, will receive a CallRetrieved
notification and MPTY notification; all other party only receives an
MPTY notification) (see figures 1.2 and 1.3). If the network did not
receive a non-zero SS Screening indicator from the remote party\'s
mobile station it shall not send a notification.

The MSC Server controlling the server mobile subscriber A shall send an
ISUP CPG \'remote retrieval\' or/and \'conference established\'
notification towards a new remote held party; it may send an ISUP CPG
\'conference established\' notification towards a new remote active
party. It may also send an ISUP CPG \'other party added\' notification
towards the other remote parties.

NOTE: Sending a single ISUP CPG \'conference established\' notification
towards a new remote held party is possible if the remote node is able
to derive the \'retrieve\' notification from the \'conference
established\' notification.

An incoming ISUP CPG \'other party added\' notification may be mapped
into a NotifySS (MPTY indicator) as specified above.

If the request is not accepted, e.g. because the maximum number of
remote parties has already been reached, then the error is indicated to
the mobile station. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

1.6 Auxiliary states for MPTY
-----------------------------

In the call hold service (3GPP TS 24.083), a two dimensional state space
is defined, where the first dimension corresponds to the 3GPP TS 24.008
call control state and the second dimension corresponds to the call hold
state (Idle, Hold Request, Call Held, Retrieve Request). For the
purposes of the MPTY service, it is necessary to introduce another
dimension to this state space, i.e. the MultiParty state.

There are four auxiliary states associated with the MPTY service:

\- Idle;

\- MPTY request;

A request has been made to add this call to the MPTY.

\- Call in MPTY;

This call is in the MPTY.

\- Split request;

A request has been made to remove this call from the MPTY.

These Auxiliary states apply in addition to the 3GPP TS 24.008 call
control states and the 3GPP TS 24.083 call hold states. Thus for
example, an active call in a held MPTY has the state (Active, Call held,
Call in MPTY). Not all states are allowed, for example an MPTY cannot be
split while it is held, so (Active, Call held, Split request) is
forbidden.

1.7 Activation, deactivation, registration, erasure and interrogation
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Activation, deactivation, registration, erasure and interrogation of the
MultiParty service are not applicable.

1.8 Simultaneous use of MultiParty operations
---------------------------------------------

The operations BuildMPTY, SplitMPTY, HoldMPTY and RetrieveMPTY interact
with each other, and cannot be applied simultaneously. Once the mobile
station has initiated one of these operations, it shall not initiate
another MultiParty operation until the first operation has been
acknowledged by the network, or the MS locally determines (due to timer
expiry) that the first operation has failed.

The use of several MultiParty operations as different components in the
same message is not allowed.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ------------- ------------------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR       \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.84                                      Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.084               R99         3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#11     24.084               Rel-4       4.0.0         Release 4 after CN\#11
  CN\#16     24.084               Rel-4       4.0.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.084               Rel-5       5.0.0         Release 5 created after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.084               Rel-6       6.0.0         Release 6 created after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.084               Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.084               Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  CT\#46     24.084      0002r1   Rel-9       9.0.0         MPTY notifications -- remote SIP parties
  2011-03    24.084      \-       Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.084      \-       Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.084      \-       Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.084      \-       Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.084      \-       Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.084      \-       Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.084      \-       Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ------------- ------------------------------------------
