Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#call-waiting-cw)

[6](#waiting-call-indication-and-confirmation)

[7](#normal-operation-with-successful-outcome)

[7](#waiting-call-accepted-existing-call-released)

[7](#waiting-call-accepted-existing-call-on-hold)

[8](#existing-call-released-by-user-a-waiting-call-accepted)

[8](#normal-operation-with-unsuccessful-outcome)

[8](#waiting-call-released-by-subscriber-b)

[9](#waiting-call-released-by-calling-user-c)

[9](#waiting-call-times-out)

[9](#no-reply-condition-timer-expires)

[9](#activation)

[10](#deactivation)

[10](#interrogation)

[11](#invocation)

[11](#registration-and-erasure)

[11](#call-hold-hold)

[11](#normal-operation)

[11](#hold-and-retrieve-functions)

[12](#hold-invocation)

[12](#retrieve-procedure)

[13](#alternate-from-one-call-to-the-other)

[14](#auxiliary-states-for-hold-and-retrieve)

[15](#an-example-of-dimensioned-state-space)

[15](#activation-and-deactivation)

[15](#registration-erasure-and-interrogation)

[16](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 0 Scope 0.1 References
0.2 Abbreviations 1 Call Waiting (CW) 1.1 Waiting call indication and
confirmation 1.2 Normal operation with successful outcome 1.2.1 Waiting
call accepted; existing call released 1.2.2 Waiting call accepted;
existing call on hold 1.2.3 Existing call released by user A; waiting
call accepted 1.3 Normal operation with unsuccessful outcome 1.3.1
Waiting call released by subscriber B 1.3.2 Waiting call released by
calling user C 1.3.3 Waiting call times out 1.3.4 No reply condition
timer expires 1.4 Activation 1.5 Deactivation 1.6 Interrogation 1.7
Invocation 1.8 Registration and erasure 2 Call Hold (HOLD) 2.1 Normal
operation 2.1.1 Hold and retrieve functions 2.1.2 Hold invocation 2.1.3
Retrieve procedure 2.1.4 Alternate from one call to the other 2.1.5
Auxiliary states for hold and retrieve 2.1.6 An example of dimensioned
state space 2.2 Activation and deactivation 2.3 Registration, erasure
and interrogation Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of call completion supplementary services within the
3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

0 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio
interface (Reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of call completion supplementary services. Provision
and withdrawal of supplementary services is an administrative matter
between the mobile subscriber and the service provider and cause no
signalling on the radio interface.

In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.

3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP
TS 22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.083
is related specially to call completion supplementary services.

Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS
23.011 and GSM 03.8x and GSM 03.9x‑series.

3GPP TS 23.083 is related specially to call completion supplementary
services.

The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007
and 3GPP TS 24.008.

The following supplementary services belong to the call completion
supplementary services and are described in the present document:

‑ Call waiting (CW) (clause 1);

‑ Call hold (HOLD) (clause 2).

0.1 References
--------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Services Data (USSD)
‑ Stage 1\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 22.091: \"ECT supplementary services operation ‑
Stage 1\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary
services\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services
‑ Stage 2\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑
Stage 2\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 23.091: \"Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary
service ‑ Stage 2\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)
Access Reference Configuration\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3;
General aspects\".

\[24\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary
services specification; General aspects\".

\[26\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary
services specification; Formats and coding\".

\[27\] 3GPP TS 24.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 3\".

0.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.

1 Call Waiting (CW)
===================

1.1 Waiting call indication and confirmation
--------------------------------------------

When this service is activated for the controlling subscriber B and the
B‑subscriber has calls only in states U10 (Active) or U26 (MO Modify) as
defined in 3GPP TS 24.008, the arrival of an incoming call from
subscriber C shall, if no other call is waiting be signalled to the
mobile station B by a normal call indication. In that case the network
and the mobile station shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The
transaction identifier shall be the transaction identifier (C‑B)
allocated to the waiting call and must not be the same as the
transaction identifier (A‑B) for the already existing call (see figure
1.1). In the CALL CONFIRMED message sent to the network the Cause
information element shall be included with cause \#17 \"user busy\" (see
figure 1.1). When the ALERTING message is received by the network the
call waiting timer T2 shall be started or if call forwarding on no reply
is activated for the B‑subscriber the no reply condition timer T3 shall
be started.

If the network received a non‑zero SS Screening indicator from the
calling users mobile station the ALERTING/FACILITY message sent to a
calling mobile user shall include the Facility information element with
an invoke of the Notification operation indicating that the call is
waiting (see figure 1.2). If the network did not receive a non‑zero SS
Screening indicator from the calling users mobile station it shall not
send a notification, i.e. either the ALERTING message does not include
the Notification operation or the FACILITY message is omitted.

MS Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\.....Transaction identifier(C-B)\.....

CALL CONFIRMED

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

\.....Transaction identifier(C-B)\.....

\.....Cause \#17 (user busy)\.....

ALERTING

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

\.....Transaction identifier(C-B)\..... start T2/T3

NOTE: The SETUP message shall include a \"Signal Information\" element
with value \#7 (call waiting tone on). This shall be used by the MS to
generate an appropriate call waiting indication.

Figure 1.1: Call indication to the mobile station on arrival of an
incoming call\
and call confirmation from the mobile station

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CALL PROCEEDING

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

ALERTING/FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CW, CallIsWaiting-Indicator))

NOTE: If possible, the ALERTING message shall be used as the carrier
message for the Call Waiting notification. Otherwise the FACILITY
message shall be used.

Figure 1.2: Notification to a calling mobile station that the call is in
the waiting state

1.2 Normal operation with successful outcome
--------------------------------------------

### 1.2.1 Waiting call accepted; existing call released

If the mobile user B before expiry of timer T2 determines to accept the
waiting call and release the existing call the mobile station shall
release the existing call firstly and accept the waiting call secondly.

For the release of the existing call the mobile station and the network
shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The transaction identifier
shall be the transaction identifier (A‑B) of the already existing call.
The Cause information element in the first clearing message shall
indicate cause \#16 \"normal clearing\".

For the acceptance of the waiting call the mobile station and the
network shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The transaction
identifier shall be the transaction identifier (C‑B) of the waiting
call.

When the network receives the CONNECT message the timer T2 or if
applicable the timer T3 shall be stopped.

### 1.2.2 Waiting call accepted; existing call on hold

If the mobile user B before expiry of timer T2 or if applicable timer T3
determines to accept the waiting call and put the existing call on hold
the mobile station shall put the existing call on hold firstly and
accept the waiting call secondly.

In case there is one active call (A‑B) and another call (D‑B) on hold
and call (C‑B) waiting, and the mobile user B wants to accept the
waiting call (C‑B) and put the active call (A‑B) on hold, the held call
(D‑B) has to be released first, either by user B or user D, in
accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008.

To put the existing call on hold the mobile station and the network
shall act in accordance with clause 2. The hold function shall be
initiated by the mobile station and the transaction identifier shall be
the transaction identifier (A‑B) of the existing call (see figure 1.3).

For the acceptance of the waiting call the mobile station and the
network shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The transaction
identifier shall be the transaction identifier (C‑B) of the waiting call
(see figure 1.3).

When the network receives the CONNECT message the timer T2 or if
applicable the timer T3 shall be stopped.

MS Network

HOLD

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

\.....Transaction identifier(A-B)\.....

HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\.....Transaction identifier(A-B)\.....

HOLD REJECT

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

\.....Transaction identifier(A-B)\.....

\.....Cause \#29 (facility rejected)\.....

or \#50 (requested facility not subscribed)

or \#69 (requested facility not implemented)

CONNECT

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

\.....Transaction identifier(C-B)\..... stop T2/T3

CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\.....Transaction identifier(C-B)\.....

Figure 1.3: Existing call on hold and acceptance of waiting call by the
mobile station

### 1.2.3 Existing call released by user A; waiting call accepted

If user A before the expiry of timer T2 or if applicable timer T3
determines to release the existing call then the existing call shall by
released by the network firstly and the waiting call may be accepted by
the mobile station secondly.

For the release of the existing call the network and the mobile station
shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The transaction identifier
shall be the transaction identifier (A‑B) of the existing call.

For the acceptance of the waiting call the mobile station and the
network shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The transaction
identifier shall be the transaction identifier (C‑B) of the waiting
call.

When the network receives the CONNECT message the timer T2 or if
applicable the timer T3 shall be stopped.

1.3 Normal operation with unsuccessful outcome
----------------------------------------------

### 1.3.1 Waiting call released by subscriber B

For the release of the waiting call the mobile station and the network
shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The transaction identifier
shall be the transaction identifier (C‑B) of the waiting call.

\* If the B subscriber indicates UDUB by the sending of the first
clearing message with cause information element \#17 (User Busy), and
call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is activated for the B
subscriber the call shall be forwarded by the network. If call
forwarding is not active the call will be cleared.

\* If any other causes are given in the first clearing message the call
will be released.

### 1.3.2 Waiting call released by calling user C

If the calling user C, before the expiry of timer T2 or timer T3 (if
applicable), releases the waiting call then the network shall release
the waiting call against the mobile station.

For the release of the waiting call the network and the mobile station
shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The transaction identifier
shall be the transaction identifier (C‑B) of the waiting call.

When the network initiates clearing by sending a clearing message to the
mobile station the timer T2 or, if applicable, the timer T3 shall be
stopped.

### 1.3.3 Waiting call times out

If the timer T2 expires the network shall release the waiting call. The
network and the mobile station shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS
24.008. The transaction identifier shall be the transaction identifier
(C‑B) of the waiting call. The Cause information element in the first
clearing message shall indicate cause \#102 \"recovery on timer
expiry\".

### 1.3.4 No reply condition timer expires

If call forwarding on no reply is activated for the B‑subscriber and the
no reply condition timer expires the waiting call shall be forwarded in
accordance with 3GPP TS 24.082. The network shall clear the waiting call
towards the B‑subscriber as in subclause 1.3.3.

1.4 Activation
--------------

Activation of the supplementary service call waiting will be performed
by the subscriber. The network will send a return result indication of
acceptance of the request (see figure 1.4).

If the network cannot accept an activation request, an error indication
is returned to the served mobile subscriber. Error values are specified
in 3GPP TS 24.080 (see figure 1.4).

If the mobile subscriber does not indicate a specific basic service
group the activation of call waiting is valid for all applicable basic
services (see figure 1.4).

Normal outgoing call procedures apply when this service is activated.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (CW, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ActivateSS (BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If the BasicServiceCode is not included the activation is valid
for all applicable basic services.

Figure 1.4: Activation of call waiting

1.5 Deactivation
----------------

Deactivation of the supplementary service call waiting will be performed
by the subscriber. The network will send a return result indication of
acceptance of the request (see figure 1.5).

If the network cannot accept a deactivation request, an error indication
is returned to the served mobile subscriber. Error values are specified
in 3GPP TS 24.080 (see figure 1.5).

If the subscriber does not indicate a specific basic service group the
deactivation of call waiting is valid for all applicable basic services
(see figure 1.5).

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (CW, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = DeactivateSS (BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If the BasicServiceCode is not included the deactivation is valid
for all applicable basic services.

Figure 1.5: Deactivation of call waiting

1.6 Interrogation
-----------------

**Status check**

The mobile subscriber can request the status of the supplementary
service call waiting and be informed whether the service is supported in
the network and if so, a list of all basic service groups to which the
call waiting supplementary service is active (see figure 1.6).

If a mobile subscriber interrogates the network on the status of call
waiting, and the network supports call waiting but the service is not
active for any basic service groups then an SS‑Status parameter shall be
returned indicating \"deactivated\" (see figure 1.6).

If a mobile subscriber interrogates the network on the status of call
waiting, whilst the network does not support call waiting, the network
shall return an error indication (see figure 1.6).

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CW))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode(s))

or

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status)

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 1.6: Interrogation of call waiting

1.7 Invocation
--------------

Invocation of call waiting causes no signalling on the radio path.

1.8 Registration and erasure
----------------------------

Registration and erasure of the supplementary service call waiting are
not applicable.

2 Call Hold (HOLD)
==================

2.1 Normal operation
--------------------

### 2.1.1 Hold and retrieve functions

The hold and retrieve functions are performed on the same MM‑connection.

The hold function is used to put an existing call which is in the active
phase in the Call held auxiliary state. By default, it retains the
MM‑connection in use and the transaction identifier of the held call for
possible subsequent call retrieval.

On receipt of a HOLD message the network shall return a HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE
message, provided that the requested function can be performed. The
network disconnects any user information path allocated to the active
call when putting that call in the Call held auxiliary state. The mobile
station disconnects any user information path to the active call and
retains the transaction identifier and the MM‑connection when putting
that call in the Call held auxiliary state.

The HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE message puts the call in the Call held auxiliary
state and indicates that the hold function has been performed. The HOLD
REJECT message indicates that the hold request was denied and returns
the call to the condition it was in prior to the hold request. The HOLD
REJECT message contains the Cause information element with e.g.:

‑ cause \#29 \"Facility rejected\";

‑ cause \#50 \"Requested facility not subscribed\";

‑ cause \#69 \"Requested facility not implemented\".

The retrieve function reconnects the mobile station to the requested
user information path. The RETRIEVE message requests that a call be
retrieved. The RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE message indicates that the retrieve
function has been performed. The RETRIEVE REJECT message indicates that
the retrieve request was denied. The RETRIEVE REJECT message contains
the Cause information element with e.g.:

‑ cause \#34 \"No channel available\".

### 2.1.2 Hold invocation

The served mobile subscriber indicates to the network that communication
on the interface is to be interrupted.

The hold function should be invoked in association with an existing
active call.

The invocation of the hold function does not affect the existing 3GPP TS
24.008 call states, but does affect the auxiliary state. The request for
placing a call on hold places the auxiliary state in the hold request
state. The responding entity will acknowledge this request with a HOLD
ACKNOWLEDGE message if this operation was successful (see figure 2.1).
This will result in the auxiliary state being put in the Call held
state.

If the requested hold function cannot be obtained, then a HOLD REJECT
message will be returned with the appropriate cause (see figure 2.1).
This will result in the auxiliary state returning to the Idle state.

The traffic channel is now available to originate another call or to
accept a waiting call (see call waiting). If at any time a call is in
the held state, either party may clear the call according to the normal
release procedure. Before to originate another call the MS will request
the establishment of an MM‑connection first, see 3GPP TS 24.008.

MS Network

HOLD

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

HOLD REJECT

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

\.....Cause\.....

Figure 2.1: Invocation of call hold

If the network received a non‑zero SS Screening indicator from the
remote party\'s mobile station the network shall send a notification to
the remote party indicating that the call has been placed on hold (see
figure 2.2). If the network did not receive a non‑zero SS Screening
indicator from the remote party\'s mobile station it shall not send a
notification.

MS Network

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (HOLD, CallOnHold-Indicator))

Figure 2.2: Notification to the held mobile party that the existing call
being put on hold

If the served mobile subscriber clears the current call and another call
is still on hold, the normal call clearing procedure is used.

### 2.1.3 Retrieve procedure

When the mobile subscriber that invoked the call hold service indicates
that the call is to be retrieved, the network shall re‑establish
communication and send an acknowledgement to the served mobile
subscriber (see figure 2.3).

If the network received a non‑zero SS Screening indicator from the
remote party\'s mobile station the network shall send a notification to
the remote party indicating that the call has been retrieved (see
figure 2.4). If the network did not receive a non‑zero SS Screening
indicator from the remote party\'s mobile station it shall not send a
notification.

The retrieve function is requested by sending a RETRIEVE message. This
message may be sent while the auxiliary state is in the Call held state.

Upon the sending of the RETRIEVE message the auxiliary state of the
initiator\'s terminal would be the retrieve request state.

If the retrieve request is successful, the RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE message
will be returned. The initiator should not assume that call retrieval
has occurred until it receives this message. The auxiliary state would
then return to the Idle state.

If the retrieve request is not successful, the RETRIEVE REJECT message
will be returned with an appropriate cause. The auxiliary state machine
would then remain to the Call held state.

MS Network

RETRIEVE

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

RETRIEVE REJECT

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

\.....Cause\.....

Figure 2.3: Notification that the held call is to be retrieved (using
the transaction identifier of the held call), by the served mobile
subscriber

MS Network

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (HOLD, CallOnHold-Indicator))

Figure 2.4: Notification to the held mobile party that the held call has
been retrieved

### 2.1.4 Alternate from one call to the other

If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and a
call on hold, he can alternate from one call to the other. This results
in the previously active call being held and the previously held call
becoming retrieved. This is achieved by sending a HOLD message for the
active call, followed by a RETRIEVE message for the held call (see
figure 2.5). These requests place the auxiliary state for the held and
active calls in the retrieve request and hold request states
respectively.

If this alternate procedure is successful the HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE message
will be returned, followed by the RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE message. The
initiator should not assume that the held call is retrieved and the
active call is held until it receives both these messages.

If the alternate procedure is not successful the HOLD REJECT message
will be returned followed by the RETRIEVE REJECT message. This will
result in the auxiliary state for the held and active calls returning to
the previous states.

If the network received a non‑zero SS Screening indicator from the
remote party\'s mobile station the network shall send a notification
towards the previously held party that the call has been retrieved (see
figure 2.4) and towards the previously active party that the call has
been on hold (see figure 2.2). If the network did not receive a non‑zero
SS Screening indicator from the remote party\'s mobile station it shall
not send a notification.

MS Network

HOLD (TI A-B)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

RETRIEVE (TI A-C)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE (TI A-B)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE (TI A-C)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

HOLD REJECT (TI A-B)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

\.....Cause\.....

RETRIEVE REJECT (TI A-C)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

\.....Cause\.....

NOTE: TI A‑B indicates the transaction identifier allocated to the
original active call and TI A‑C indicates the transaction identifier
allocated to the original held call.

Figure 2.5: Alternate procedure

### 2.1.5 Auxiliary states for hold and retrieve

It is possible to place a call on hold in the Active state. The concept
of dimensioned state space is being introduced to ensure state
synchronization between the mobile station and the network. This concept
suggests dimensioning the call state machine into two dimensions. In
other words, there would be two states associated with each call. The
first would be a 3GPP TS 24.008 call state and the second would be an
auxiliary state associated with hold. Suppose the dimensioned state
space is represented by two co-ordinates: one is a 3GPP TS 24.008 call
state co-ordinate and the other is a hold co-ordinate. If a 3GPP TS
24.008 call state transition occurs, the former co-ordinate is updated.
If a call is put on hold, the hold co-ordinate is updated. When the held
call is reconnected, the hold co-ordinate is again updated.

There are four auxiliary states associated with the hold and retrieve
functions:

‑ Idle;

‑ Hold request;

A request has been made for the hold function.

‑ Call held;

The call is held and the user information path has been reserved.

‑ Retrieve request;

A request has been made for the retrieve function.

### 2.1.6 An example of dimensioned state space

Suppose a call is in the Active state.

The dimensioned state space would be:

(Active, Idle).

Now the mobile station requests the hold function.

The dimensioned state space would become:

(Active, Hold request).

The call is then put on hold.

The mobile station becomes aware of this upon receiving the HOLD
ACKNOWLEDGE message from the network.

The dimensioned state space would now be:

(Active, Call held).

Now the mobile station requests the retrieve function.

The dimensioned state space would become:

(Active, Retrieve request).

When a call is reconnected, the dimensioned state space would be:

(Active, Idle).

2.2 Activation and deactivation
-------------------------------

Activation and deactivation of the supplementary service call hold cause
no signalling on the radio path.

2.3 Registration, erasure and interrogation
-------------------------------------------

Registration, erasure and interrogation of the supplementary service
call hold are not applicable.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- ---- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR   \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.83                                  Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.083           R99         3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#11     24.083           Rel-4       4.0.0         Release 4 after CN\#11
  CN\#16     24.083           Rel-4       4.0.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.083           Rel-5       5.0.0         Rel-5 created after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.083           Rel-6       6.0.0         Rel-6 created after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.083           Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.083           Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  2009-12    24.083      \-   Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.083      \-   Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.083      \-   Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.083      \-   Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.083      \-   Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.083      \-   Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.083      \-   Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.083      \-   Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- ---- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
