  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#calling-line-identification-presentation-clip)

[6](#normal-operation)

[7](#interrogation)

[7](#activation-deactivation-registration-and-erasure)

[7](#calling-line-identification-restriction-clir)

[7](#normal-operation-1)

[8](#requesting-presentation-of-cli)

[8](#requesting-restriction-of-cli-presentation)

[8](#interrogation-1)

[9](#activation-deactivation-registration-and-erasure-1)

[9](#connected-line-identification-presentation-colp)

[9](#normal-operation-2)

[10](#interrogation-2)

[10](#activation-deactivation-registration-and-erasure-2)

[10](#connected-line-identification-restriction-colr)

[10](#normal-operation-3)

[11](#interrogation-3)

[11](#activation-deactivation-registration-and-erasure-3)

[12](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 0 Scope 0.1 References
0.2 Abbreviations 1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP) 1.1
Normal operation 1.2 Interrogation 1.3 Activation, deactivation,
registration and erasure 2 Calling Line Identification Restriction
(CLIR) 2.1 Normal Operation 2.2 Requesting presentation of CLI 2.3
Requesting restriction of CLI presentation 2.4 Interrogation 2.5
Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure 3 Connected Line
Identification Presentation (COLP) 3.1 Normal operation 3.2
Interrogation 3.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure 4
Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR) 4.1 Normal operation
4.2 Interrogation 4.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of line identification supplementary services within
the 3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

0 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio
interface for normal operation, registration, erasure, activation,
deactivation, invocation and interrogation of line identification
supplementary services. Provision and withdrawal of supplementary
services is an administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and
the service provider and cause no signalling on the radio interface.

In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.

3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP
TS 22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.081
is related specially to line identification supplementary services.

Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP
TS 23.011 and 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 23.081
is related specially to line identification supplementary services.

The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007
and 3GPP TS 24.008.

The following supplementary services belong to the line identification
supplementary services and are described in the present document:

\- Calling line identification presentation (CLIP) (clause 1);

\- Calling line identification restriction (CLIR) (clause 2);

\- Connected line identification presentation (COLP) (clause 3);

\- Connected line identification restriction (COLR) (clause 4).

0.1 References
--------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD)
- Stage 1\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary
services\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 23.084 \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services
‑ Stage 2\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑
Stage 2\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3;
General aspects\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary
services specification; General aspects\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary
services specification; Formats and coding\".

0.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.

1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
=================================================

1.1 Normal operation
--------------------

The calling line identity consists of a calling party BCD number and
optionally, a calling party subaddress and/or a cause of no CLI.

The calling party BCD number information element is made up of a number
of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

In addition to or instead of the calling party\'s digits, the subscriber
may be given the following information:

\- screening indicator;

\- presentation indicator.

Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.

The calling party subaddress information element is made up of a number
of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

The cause of no CLI information element is made up of a detailed cause
of no CLI as indicated in TS 24.008.

A called mobile subscriber subscribing to calling line identification
presentation service receives the call with the information indicated
above, see figure 1.1.

MSb Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Calling party BCD number (screening indicator, presentation indicator,
calling party digits),

Calling party subaddress, Cause of No CLI

NOTE: The calling party subaddress is passed to MSb if it is received
from the originating network.

Figure 1.1: Notification by the network to the called mobile subscriber

When the calling line identity is not available, the presentation
indicator which is given to the called mobile subscriber takes the value
of \"number not available\".

1.2 Interrogation
-----------------

**Status Check**

The mobile subscriber can request the status of the supplementary
service and be informed if the service is provided to him.

MSa Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CLIP))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return Result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return Error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 1.2: Interrogation of calling line identification presentation

1.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
------------------------------------------------------

Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service calling line identification presentation are not applicable.

2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
================================================

2.1 Normal Operation
--------------------

When calling line identification restriction is applicable, the
originating network provides the destination network with a notification
that the calling party\'s ISDN number, with possible additional address
information, is not allowed to be presented to the called party.

If the called mobile user subscribes to calling line identification
presentation and the calling party has calling line identification
restriction applied, the called mobile party shall receive the
presentation indicator showing \"presentation restricted\" in the
calling party BCD field of the SETUP message, see figure 1.1. In this
case, the calling party\'s number (digits) will not be sent towards the
called subscriber.

2.2 Requesting presentation of CLI
----------------------------------

When the CLIR presentation mode is temporary (presentation restricted),
it is possible for the subscriber to present his CLI on a per call
basis. The MS shall send a CLIR suppression information element to the
network.

If the subscriber tries to override CLIR (i.e. requests that the CLI is
displayed), when he has subscribed to permanent mode a NotifySS shall be
sent to the MS in order to inform that the override has not been
performed and the call set-up shall continue.

MSa Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CLIR suppression

FACILITY

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CLIR, CLIR Suppression Rejected))

Figure 2.1: Requesting presentation of CLI

2.3 Requesting restriction of CLI presentation
----------------------------------------------

When the CLIR presentation mode is temporary (presentation allowed), it
is possible for the subscriber to restrict the CLI on a per call basis.
The MS shall send a CLIR invocation information element to the network.

If the subscriber has not subscribed to CLIR and tries to invoke CLIR
(i.e. requests that the CLI is not displayed), the SETUP shall be
rejected. The MS and the network shall act in accordance with 3GPP
TS 24.008 network initiated call clearing procedure, see figure 2.2.

MSa Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CLIR invocation

DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Cause \#50 (Facility not subscribed, diagnostic = CLIR not subscribed)

Figure 2.2: Requesting restriction of CLI presentation

2.4 Interrogation
-----------------

**Data request**

The mobile subscriber can request the data of the supplementary service.

If the service is not provisioned the network shall sent a return result
including the SS-Status parameter.

If the service is provisioned the network shall sent a return result
including the SS-Status and the CLI Restriction Option parameters.

MSa Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CLIR))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return Result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status, CLI Restriction
Option))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return Error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 2.3: Interrogation of calling line identification restriction

2.5 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
------------------------------------------------------

Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service calling line identification restriction are not applicable.

3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
===================================================

3.1 Normal operation
--------------------

The connected line identity consists of a connected number and
optionally, a connected subaddress.

The connected number is made up of a number of information units as
indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

In addition to or instead of the connected number digits, the subscriber
may be given the following information:

\- screening indicator;

\- presentation indicator.

Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.

In the call set-up phase the calling mobile subscriber receives the
information at the end of the call set-up.

The connected subaddress information element is made up of a number of
information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

A calling mobile subscriber subscribing to connected line identification
presentation receives a message with the information indicated above,
see figure 3.1.

MSa Network

CONNECT

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Connectednumber (Screening-indicator, Presentation-indicator, Connected
number digits),

Connected subaddress

NOTE: The connected subaddress is passed to MSa if it is received from
the terminating network.

Figure 3.1: Notification by the network to the calling mobile subscriber

When the connected line identity is not available (due to interworking
or presentation restrictions), appropriate indication information is
given to the calling mobile subscriber.

3.2 Interrogation
-----------------

**Status Check**

The mobile subscriber can request the status of the supplementary
service and be informed if the service is provided to him.

MSa Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (COLP))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return Result = Interrogate SS (SS-status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return Error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - \-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 3.2: Interrogation of connected line identification presentation

3.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
------------------------------------------------------

Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service connected line identification presentation is not applicable.

4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
==================================================

4.1 Normal operation
--------------------

When connected line identification restriction is applicable the
destination network provides the originating network with a notification
that the connected party\'s ISDN number, with possible additional
address information, is not allowed to be presented to the calling
party.

If the calling mobile user subscribes to connected line identification
presentation and the connected party has connected line identification
restriction applied, the calling mobile party shall receive the
presentation indicator showing \"presentation restricted\", see figure
3.1. In this case, the connected number will not be sent towards the
calling subscriber.

4.2 Interrogation
-----------------

**Status Check**

The mobile subscriber can request the status of the supplementary
service and be informed if the service is provided to him.

MSa Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (COLR))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return Result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return Error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 4.1: Interrogation of connected line identification restriction

4.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
------------------------------------------------------

Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service connected line identification restriction are not applicable.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- ----- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR    \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.81                                   Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.081                        3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#08     24.081      001   R99         3.1.0         Cause of no CLI indication
  CN\#11     24.081            Rel-4       4.0.0         Release 4 after CN\#11
  CN\#15     24.081            Rel-4       4.0.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.081            Rel-5       5.0.0         Release 5 after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.081            Rel-6       6.0.0         Release 6 after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.081            Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.081            Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  2009-12    24.081      \-    Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.081      \-    Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.081      \-    Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.081      \-    Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.081      \-    Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.081      \-    Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.081      \-    Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.081      \-    Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- ----- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
