Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#cross-phase-compatibility)

[8](#call-forwarding-unconditional-cfu)

[8](#normal-operation)

[8](#served-mobile-subscriber-side)

[8](#forwarded-to-mobile-subscriber-side)

[9](#calling-mobile-subscriber-side)

[9](#registration)

[9](#registration-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber)

[10](#erasure)

[10](#erasure-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber)

[11](#activation)

[12](#deactivation)

[12](#interrogation)

[14](#cross-phase-compatibility-1)

[14](#network-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber)

[14](#ms-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber)

[14](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-busy-cfb)

[14](#normal-operation-1)

[14](#served-mobile-subscriber-side-1)

[15](#forwardedto-mobile-subscriber-side)

[16](#calling-mobile-subscriber-side-1)

[16](#registration-1)

[16](#registration-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber-1)

[17](#erasure-1)

[17](#erasure-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber-1)

[18](#activation-1)

[19](#deactivation-1)

[19](#interrogation-1)

[21](#cross-phase-compatibility-2)

[21](#network-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-1)

[21](#ms-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-1)

[21](#call-forwarding-on-no-reply-cfnry)

[21](#normal-operation-2)

[21](#served-mobile-subscriber-side-2)

[22](#forwardedto-mobile-subscriber-side-1)

[22](#calling-mobile-subscriber-side-2)

[23](#registration-2)

[23](#registration-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber-2)

[24](#erasure-2)

[24](#erasure-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber-2)

[25](#activation-2)

[25](#deactivation-2)

[26](#interrogation-2)

[28](#cross-phase-compatibility-3)

[28](#network-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-2)

[28](#ms-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-2)

[28](#call-forwarding-on-mobile-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc)

[28](#normal-operation-3)

[28](#served-mobile-subscriber-side-3)

[28](#forwardedto-mobile-subscriber-side-2)

[29](#calling-mobile-subscriber-side-3)

[29](#registration-3)

[30](#registration-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber-3)

[30](#erasure-3)

[31](#erasure-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber-3)

[31](#activation-3)

[32](#deactivation-3)

[33](#interrogation-3)

[34](#cross-phase-compatibility-4)

[34](#network-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-3)

[34](#ms-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-3)

[35](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 0 Scope 0.1 References
0.2 Abbreviations 0.3 Cross phase compatibility 1 Call Forwarding
Unconditional (CFU) 1.1 Normal operation 1.1.1 Served mobile subscriber
side 1.1.2 Forwarded-to mobile subscriber side 1.1.3 Calling mobile
subscriber side 1.2 Registration 1.2.1 Registration by the served mobile
subscriber 1.3 Erasure 1.3.1 Erasure by the served mobile subscriber 1.4
Activation 1.5 Deactivation 1.6 Interrogation 1.7 Cross phase
compatibility 1.7.1 Network only supports protocol version 1 control of
SS by the subscriber 1.7.2 MS only supports protocol version 1 control
of SS by the subscriber 2 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy
(CFB) 2.1 Normal operation 2.1.1 Served mobile subscriber side 2.1.2
Forwarded‑to mobile subscriber side 2.1.3 Calling mobile subscriber side
2.2 Registration 2.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber 2.3
Erasure 2.3.1 Erasure by the served mobile subscriber 2.4 Activation 2.5
Deactivation 2.6 Interrogation 2.7 Cross phase compatibility 2.7.1
Network only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber
2.7.2 MS only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the
subscriber 3 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy) 3.1 Normal operation
3.1.1 Served mobile subscriber side 3.1.2 Forwarded‑to mobile subscriber
side 3.1.3 Calling mobile subscriber side 3.2 Registration 3.2.1
Registration by the served mobile subscriber 3.3 Erasure 3.3.1 Erasure
by the served mobile subscriber 3.4 Activation 3.5 Deactivation 3.6
Interrogation 3.7 Cross phase compatibility 3.7.1 Network only supports
protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber 3.7.2 MS only
supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber 4 Call
Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc) 4.1 Normal
operation 4.1.1 Served mobile subscriber side 4.1.2 Forwarded‑to mobile
subscriber side 4.1.3 Calling mobile subscriber side 4.2 Registration
4.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber 4.3 Erasure 4.3.1
Erasure by the served mobile subscriber 4.4 Activation 4.5 Deactivation
4.6 Interrogation 4.7 Cross phase compatibility 4.7.1 Network only
supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber 4.7.2 MS
only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for: normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation,
interrogation, and network invocation of the call offering supplementary
services within the 3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

0 Scope
=======

This European Standard (EN) specifies the procedures used at the radio
interface (reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation,
interrogation and network invocation of call offering supplementary
services. Provision and withdrawal of supplementary services is an
administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and the service
provider and cause no signalling on the radio interface.

In 3GPP TS 24.010, the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.

3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP
TS 22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.082
is related specially to call offering supplementary services.

Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS
23.011 and 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 23.082 is
related specially to call offering supplementary services.

The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007
and 3GPP TS 24.008.

The following supplementary services belong to the call offering
supplementary services and are described in the present document:

\- Call forwarding unconditional (CFU) (clause 1);

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy (CFB) (clause 2);

\- Call forwarding on no reply (CFNRy) (clause 3);

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable (CFNRc) (clause
4).

0.1 References
==============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \" General on supplementary services\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.082: \" Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.083: \" Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 22.084: \" MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 22.085: \" Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services
‑ Stage 1\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 22.086: \" Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD)
- Stage 1\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary
services\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services
‑ Stage 2\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑
Stage 2\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)
Access Reference Configuration\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3;
General aspects\".

\[24\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".

\[26\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification Formats and coding\".

0.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.

0.3 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

For the following supplementary services, a number of changes exist
between the present document and the protocol version 1 specification:

\- Call forwarding unconditional;

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy;

\- Call forwarding on no reply;

\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable.

For these supplementary services, the main body of the present document
assumes that all network entities comply with this version of the
service. In each case, an additional subclause (subclause x.7) defines
the additional requirements for when one or more network entities or the
MS complies with the protocol version 1 specifications for the
supplementary service procedures.

1 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
=====================================

1.1 Normal operation
--------------------

### 1.1.1 Served mobile subscriber side

When call forwarding unconditional is active, all incoming calls for the
specified basic service(s) will be forwarded without being offered to
the served mobile subscriber.

When CFU is active, the ability of the served mobile subscriber to
originate calls is not affected. However, a NotifySS operation
containing the SS-Status indicating that CFU is currently active and
operative will be sent to the served mobile subscriber each time an
outgoing call is made, see figure 1.1.

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

e.g. ALERTING

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFU, SS-Status))

Figure 1.1: Notification to the served mobile subscriber that call
forwarding is active

### 1.1.2 Forwarded-to mobile subscriber side

The forwarded-to mobile subscriber will receive a NotifySS operation
containing the SS-Notification indicating that the incoming call is a
forwarded call. When available, the SS-Code of the invoked forwarding
service is also included, see figure 1.2.

When multiple forwarding occurs the value of the SS-Code shall relate to
the last invoked forwarding service.

In addition the forwarded-to mobile subscriber will receive the
redirecting party BCD number and optionally, a redirecting party
subaddress.

The redirecting party BCD number information element is made up of a
number of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

In addition to or instead of the redirecting party\'s digits, the
subscriber may be given the following information:

\- screening indicator;

\- presentation indicator.

Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.

The redirecting party subaddress information element is made up of a
number of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

MS Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFU, SS-Notification))

Redirecting party BCD number (screening indicator, presentation
indicator, redirecting party digits),

Redirecting party subaddress

NOTE: If the specific call forwarding service is not known the common
SS‑Code for all forwarding SS will be used.

Figure 1.2: Notification to the forwarded‑to mobile subscriber that the
incoming call is a forwarded call

### 1.1.3 Calling mobile subscriber side

As a subscription option, the served mobile subscriber can request that
the calling mobile subscriber receives a NotifySS operation containing
the SS‑Notification indicating that the call has been forwarded. When
available, the SS‑Code of the invoked forwarding service is also
included, see figure 1.3.

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFU, SS-Notification))

NOTE: If the specific call forwarding service is not known the common
SS-Code for all forwarding SS will be used.

Figure 1.3: Notification to the calling mobile subscriber that the call
is forwarded

1.2 Registration
----------------

The following information has to be registered in the network:

\- the ForwardedToNumber which may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress;

\- information as to whether all calls or all calls of a specific basic
service should be forwarded.

### 1.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber

A CFU registration request from a mobile user shall include the SS-Code
of the forwarding service to be registered and possibly the
BasicServiceCode the request applies to. If the BasicServiceCode is not
included, the request applies to all basic services.

If the registration is successful, the CFU service will be registered
and activated. The network will then send a return result indicating
acceptance of the request including the ForwardedToNumber and possibly
the BasicService (group) Code to which CFU is registered. If the request
applied to a single elementary basic service group, the
ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a ForwardedToSubAddress. In
other cases, the result shall not contain a ForwardedToSubAddress. The
result may also contain an SS‑Status parameter. If the MS does not send
an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the network shall
send an SS‑Status in the result. If the MS does send an SS Version
Indicator in the invocation request then the inclusion of SS‑Status in
the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included the network shall
set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall ignore the
contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See figure 1.4.

Note that the use of SS‑Status is to provide backwards compatibility
with phase 1.

If the system cannot accept a registration request, a corresponding
error indication is returned to the served mobile subscriber that CFU
registration was not successful. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = RegisterSS (CFU, BasicServiceCode, ForwardedToNumber,
ForwardedToSubAddress, LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = RegisterSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic
services. The ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The SS-Status may not be included in all cases,
see text.

Figure 1.4: Registration of call forwarding unconditional

When registering call forwarding, the SS‑Code may indicate the code for
\"all forwarding SS\". In this case, if the subscriber has CFU
provisioned, the return result shall contain the information for CFU. If
the subscriber does not have CFU provisioned, the return result shall
contain the information for any conditional call forwarding services
which the subscriber has provisioned. The condition for the presence of
longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

1.3 Erasure
-----------

A previous registration can be erased in one of three ways:

‑ the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration with an
appropriate control procedure;

‑ the subscriber can register information for CFU for a specific basic
service group to another directory number, thus causing the previous
registration of CFU to be overridden;

‑ all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the
supplementary service (administrative handling).

### 1.3.1 Erasure by the served mobile subscriber

If the erasure is successful, the CFU service will be erased (and
automatically deactivated). The network will then send a return result
indicating acceptance of the request. The result is formatted according
to the options shown below:

‑ The result includes the BasicService (group) Code for which CFU was
erased. The result may also contain an SS‑Status parameter. If the MS
does not send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the
network shall send an SS‑Status in the result. If the MS does send an SS
Version Indicator in the invocation request then the inclusion of
SS‑Status in the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included the
network shall set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall
ignore the contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See
figure 1.5.

Note that the use of SS‑Status is to provide backwards compatibility
with GSM Phase 1.

‑ If the request did not include a BasicServiceCode, and the erasure was
successful for all basic services, the network may send an empty return
result to the MS. This option applies whether or not an SS Version
Indicator is received from the MS.

If the network cannot accept the erasure request, the status of CFU in
the network remains unchanged. An error indication will then be returned
to the served mobile subscriber that erasure of CFU was unsuccessful.
Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = EraseSS (CFU, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = EraseSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic
services. The SS‑Code may also indicate the code for \"all forwarding
SS\". The SS‑Status may not be included in all cases, see text.

Figure 1.5: Erasure of call forwarding unconditional

1.4 Activation
--------------

An explicit CFU activation request from a mobile user shall contain the
supplementary service to be activated and possibly the basic service
group the request applies to. If a basic service group is not included
in the activation request the request applies to all basic services
against which a CFU forwarded‑to number is registered. The user shall
receive appropriate notification of acceptance, rejection or partial
acceptance of the CFU activation request, see figure 1.6.

Error values (which are used in the two latter situations) are specified
in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (CFU, LongFTNsupported, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ActivateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The SS‑Code may also indicate the code for \"all forwarding SS\",
being handled as for registration (see subclause 1.2.1).

Figure 1.6: Activation of call forwarding unconditional

The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS
23.082 \[15\].

1.5 Deactivation
----------------

An explicit CFU deactivation request shall contain the supplementary
service to be deactivated and possibly the basic service group the
request applies to. If a basic service group is not included in the
deactivation request the request applies to all basic services against
which CFU is activated. The user shall receive appropriate notification
of acceptance or rejection of the CFU deactivation request, see
figure 1.7.

Error values to be used in the latter situation are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.

Deactivation shall not lead to erasure of the information registered in
the network.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (CFU, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = DeactivateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The SS‑Code may also indicate the code for \"all forwarding SS\".

Figure 1.7: Deactivation of call forwarding unconditional

1.6 Interrogation
-----------------

**Data request**

The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested
this procedure the network shall return the following information:

‑ in response to a general data request (i.e. not including a
BasicServiceCode) the served mobile subscriber should be given the
following data for each basic service group to which CFU is registered:

‑ the SS‑Status indicating whether the supplementary service is \"not
active\", \"active and operative\" or \"active and quiescent\";

‑ the associated ForwardedToNumber which shall not be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress,

see figure 1.8.

If CFU is not registered for any basic service groups, only the
SS‑Status parameter indicating \"not registered\" is returned.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CFU, LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The ForwardedToNumber shall not be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The return result may consist of a list of
parameters, each relating to a specific basic service group.

Figure 1.8: Interrogation of active call forwarding unconditional for
all basic services

‑ in response to a specific request concerning one particular basic
service group, the served mobile subscriber should be informed whether
or not CFU is registered, including information on whether or not it is
active and operative or active and quiescent for that basic service
group. If CFU is registered, the associated ForwardedToNumber shall be
given, see figure 1.9. If the request applied to a single elementary
basic service group, the ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. In other cases the result shall not contain a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport
is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

If CFU is not registered for the interrogated basic service group, only
the SS‑Status parameter indicating \"not registered\" is returned.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CFU, BasicServiceCode,
LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress.

Figure 1.9: Interrogation of active call forwarding unconditional for
one particular basic service

The values \"all forwarding SS\" and \"all conditional forwarding SS\"
shall not be sent over the air interface by the MS in an interrogation.
If an interrogation is received containing one of these codes the
network shall send a return error component. The condition for the
presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

1.7 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 1.7.1 Network only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

A CFU registration request which contains a ForwardedToSubaddress shall
be rejected by the network if any network element involved is of
protocol version 1.

Note that a CFU activation or deactivation request will be rejected by
the network is any network element involved is of protocol version 1.

### 1.7.2 MS only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In response to a CFU interrogation request, where the SS Version
Indicator is not received from the MS, the network shall only return
data for basic service groups to which CFU is activated and operative.
Data shall not be returned for basic service groups to which CFU is
deactivated. This means that the subscriber is not always aware of the
true state of the service.

In response to a CFU registration or erasure request, where the SS
Version Indicator is not received from the MS, the network shall always
include the SS‑Status parameter.

2 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
=================================================

2.1 Normal operation
--------------------

### 2.1.1 Served mobile subscriber side

When call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active, the following
actions are taken by the network:

‑ If the mobile is Network Determined User Busy (NDUB as defined in 3GPP
TS 22.001), incoming calls for the specified basic service(s) will be
forwarded without being offered to the served mobile subscriber.

‑ If the mobile is not NDUB, the incoming call is offered (as a normal
or waiting call) to the served mobile subscriber.

‑ if the call is subsequently released by the mobile with the first
clearing message containing the cause = \"User Busy\" before the CONNECT
message is received, it will be forwarded by the network, see
figure 2.0;

‑ if any other release causes are given, the call will be released;

‑ if one of the call control timers (T303 or T310) elapse, the call will
be released.

MS Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\....Transaction Identifier (A-B)\....

RELEASE COMPLETE/RELEASE/DISCONNECT

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

\....Transaction Identifier (A-B)\....

\....Cause \# 17 (User Busy)\....

Figure 2.0: Call which is offered to the served mobile subscriber being
released.\
The network will invoke call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy in
this case,\
if CFB is active for the requested basic service

When an incoming call is forwarded on mobile subscriber busy due to NDUB
the served mobile subscriber can, as a subscription option, receive a
NotifySS operation containing the SS-Notification indicating that a call
has been forwarded, see figure 2.1. He will not be able to answer the
incoming call.

The transaction identifier employed shall correspond to any call B is
having.

MS Network

FACILITY (TI=B-X)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFB, SS-Notification))

NOTE: X is any party with which B has a call.

Figure 2.1: Notification to the served mobile subscriber that a call is
forwarded on mobile subscriber busy

When CFB is active, the ability of the served mobile subscriber to
originate calls is not affected. However, a NotifySS operation
containing the SS‑Status indicating that a conditional call forwarding
supplementary service is currently active and operative will be sent to
the served mobile subscriber each time an outgoing call is made, see
figure 2.2.

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

e.g. ALERTING

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code, SS-Status))

NOTE: The SS‑Code will be the common SS‑Code for all conditional call
forwarding services.

Figure 2.2: Notification to the served mobile subscriber that a
conditional call forwarding service is active

### 2.1.2 Forwarded‑to mobile subscriber side

The forwarded‑to mobile subscriber will receive a NotifySS operation
containing the SS‑Notification indicating that the incoming call is a
forwarded call. When available, the SS‑Code of the invoked forwarding
service is also included, see figure 2.3.

When multiple forwarding occurs the value of the SS‑Code shall relate to
the last invoked forwarding service.

In addition the forwarded-to mobile subscriber will receive the
redirecting party BCD number and optionally, a redirecting party
subaddress.

The redirecting party BCD number information element is made up of a
number of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

In addition to or instead of the redirecting party\'s digits, the
subscriber may be given the following information:

\- screening indicator;

\- presentation indicator.

Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.

The redirecting party subaddress information element is made up of a
number of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

MS Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFB, SS-Notification))

Redirecting party BCD number (screening indicator, presentation
indicator, redirecting party digits),

Redirecting party subaddress

NOTE: If the specific call forwarding service is not known the common
SS-Code for all forwarding SS will be used.

Figure 2.3: Notification to the forwarded‑to mobile subscriber that the
incoming call is a forwarded call

### 2.1.3 Calling mobile subscriber side

As a subscription option, the served mobile subscriber can request that
the calling mobile subscriber receives a NotifySS operation containing
the SS‑Notification indicating that the call has been forwarded. When
available, the SS‑Code of the invoked forwarding service is also
included, see figure 2.4.

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFB, SS-Notification))

NOTE: If the specific call forwarding service is not known the common
SS‑Code for all forwarding SS will be used.

Figure 2.4: Notification to the calling mobile subscriber that the call
is forwarded

2.2 Registration
----------------

The following information has to be registered in the network:

‑ the ForwardedToNumber which may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress;

‑ information as to whether all calls or all calls of a specific basic
service should be forwarded.

### 2.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber

A CFB registration request from a mobile user shall include the SS‑Code
of the forwarding service to be registered, and possibly the
BasicServiceCode the request applies to. If the BasicServiceCode is not
included, the request applies to all basic services.

If the registration is successful, the CFB service will be registered
and activated. The network will then send a return result indicating
acceptance of the request, including the ForwardedToNumber and possibly
the BasicService (group) Code to which CFB is registered. If the request
applied to a single elementary basic service group, the
ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a ForwardedToSubAddress. In
other cases the result shall not contain a ForwardedToSubAddress. The
result may also contain an SS‑Status parameter. If the MS does not send
an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the network shall
send an SS‑Status in the result. If the MS does send an SS Version
Indicator in the invocation request then the inclusion of SS‑Status in
the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included the network shall
set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall ignore the
contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See figure 2.5.

Note that the use of SS‑Status is to provide backwards compatibility
with phase 1.

If the system cannot accept a registration request, a corresponding
error indication is returned to the served mobile subscriber that CFB
registration was not successful. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = RegisterSS (CFB, BasicServiceCode, ForwardedToNumber,
ForwardedToSubAddress, LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = RegisterSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic
services. The ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The SS‑Status may not be included in all cases,
see text.

Figure 2.5: Registration of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

The SS‑Code may indicate the code for \"all forwarding SS\", as
specified in subclause 1.2.1.

The SS‑Code may indicate the code for \"all conditional forwarding SS\".
In this case the return result shall contain the information for any
conditional call forwarding services which the subscriber has
provisioned. The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport is
specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

2.3 Erasure
-----------

A previous registration can be erased in one of three ways:

‑ the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration with an
appropriate control procedure;

‑ the subscriber can register information for CFB for the specific basic
service to another directory number, thus causing the previous
registration of CFB to be overridden;

‑ all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the
supplementary service (administrative handling).

### 2.3.1 Erasure by the served mobile subscriber

A CFB erasure request from a mobile subscriber may include the
BasicServiceCode. If this is not the case, the erasure applies to all
basic services.

If the erasure is successful, the CFB service will be erased (and
automatically deactivated). The network will then send a return result
indicating acceptance of the request. The result is formatted according
to the options shown below:

‑ The result includes the BasicService (group) Code for which CFB was
erased. The result may also contain an SS‑Status parameter. If the MS
does not send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the
network shall send an SS‑Status in the result. If the MS does send an SS
Version Indicator in the invocation request then the inclusion of
SS‑Status in the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included the
network shall set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall
ignore the contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See
figure 2.6.

Note that the use of SS‑Status is to provide backwards compatibility
with phase 1.

‑ If the request did not include a BasicServiceCode, and the erasure was
successful for all basic services, the network may send an empty return
result to the MS. This option applies whether or not an SS Version
Indicator is received from the MS.

If the network cannot accept the erasure request, the status of CFB in
the network remains unchanged. An error indication will then be returned
to the served mobile subscriber that erasure of CFB was unsuccessful.
Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = EraseSS (CFB, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = EraseSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic
services. The SS‑Code may also indicate the code for \"all conditional
forwarding SS\" or the code for \"all forwarding SS\". The SS‑Status may
not be included in all cases, see text.

Figure 2.6: Erasure of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

2.4 Activation
--------------

An explicit CFB activation request shall contain the SS‑Code of the
supplementary service to be activated and possibly the BasicServiceCode
the request applies to. If a BasicServiceCode is not included in the
activation request the request applies to all basic services against
which CFB forwarded‑to number is registered. The user shall receive
appropriate notification of acceptance, rejection or partial acceptance
of the CFB activation request, see figure 2.7.

Error values to be used in the two latter situations are specified in
3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (CFB, LongFTNsupported, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ActivateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The SS‑Code may also indicate the code \"all conditional
forwarding SS\" group, as specified in subclause 2.2.1, or the \"all
forwarding SS\" group, as specified in subclause 1.2.1.

Figure 2.7: Activation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS
23.082 \[15\].

2.5 Deactivation
----------------

An explicit CFB deactivation request shall contain the SS‑Code of the
supplementary service to be deactivated and possibly the
BasicServiceCode the request applies to. If a BasicServiceCode is not
included in the deactivation request the request applies to all basic
services against which CFB is activated. The user shall receive
appropriate notification of acceptance or rejection of the CFB
deactivation request, see figure 2.8.

Error values to be used in the latter situation are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.

Deactivation shall not lead to erasure of the information registered in
the network.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (CFB, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = DeactivateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The SS‑Code may also indicate the \"all conditional forwarding
SS\" group or the \"all forwarding SS\" group.

Figure 2.8: Deactivation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy

2.6 Interrogation
-----------------

**Data request**

The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested
this procedure the network shall return the following information:

‑ in response to a general data request (i.e. not including a
BasicServiceCode) the served mobile subscriber should be given the
following data for each basic service group to which CFB is registered:

‑ the SS‑Status indicating whether the supplementary service is \"not
active\", \"active and operative\" or \"active and quiescent\";

‑ the associated ForwardedToNumber which shall not be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress,

see figure 2.9.

If CFB is not registered for any basic service groups, only the
SS‑Status parameter indicating \"not registered\" is returned.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CFB, LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The ForwardedToNumber shall not be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The return result may consist of a list of
parameters, each relating to a specific basic service group.

Figure 2.9: Interrogation of active call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy for all basic services

‑ in response to a specific request (i.e. containing one particular
BasicService (group) Code, the served mobile subscriber should receive
the SS‑Status parameter, indicating whether or not CFB is registered,
including information as to whether or not it is active and operative or
active and quiescent for that basic service group. If CFB is registered,
the associated ForwardedToNumber shall be given, see figure 2.10. If the
request applied to a single elementary basic service group, the
ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a ForwardedToSubAddress. In
other cases the result shall not contain a ForwardedToSubAddress. The
condition for the presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS
23.082 \[15\].

If CFB is not registered for the interrogated BasicService (group) code,
only the SS‑Status parameter indicating \"not registered\" is returned.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CFB, BasicServiceCode,
LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress.

Figure 2.10: Interrogation of active call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy for one particular basic service

The values \"all forwarding SS\" and \"all conditional forwarding SS\"
shall not be sent over the air interface by the MS in an interrogation.
If an interrogation is received containing one of these codes the
network shall send a return error component. The condition for the
presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

2.7 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 2.7.1 Network only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

A CFB registration request which contains a ForwardedToSubaddress shall
be rejected by the network if any network element involved is of
protocol version 1.

Note that a CFB activation or deactivation request will be rejected by
the network is any network element involved is of protocol version 1.

### 2.7.2 MS only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In response to a CFB interrogation request, where the SS Version
Indicator is not received from the MS, the network shall only return
data for basic service groups to which CFB is activated and operative.
Data shall not be returned for basic service groups to which CFB is
deactivated. This means that the subscriber is not always aware of the
true state of the service.

In response to a CFB registration or erasure request, where the SS
Version Indicator is not received from the MS, the network shall always
include the SS‑Status parameter.

3 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
=====================================

3.1 Normal operation
--------------------

### 3.1.1 Served mobile subscriber side

When call forwarding on no reply is active, all incoming calls for the
specified basic service(s) that are not answered within the period
defined by the no reply condition timer, will be forwarded.

When an incoming call is forwarded on no reply the served mobile
subscriber can, as a subscription option, receive a NotifySS operation
containing the SS‑Notification indicating that a call has been
forwarded, see figure 3.1.

MS Network

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFNRy, SS-Notification))

Figure 3.1: Notification to the served mobile subscriber that the call
is forwarded on no reply

When CFNRy is active, the ability of the served mobile subscriber to
originate calls is not affected. However, a NotifySS operation
containing the SS‑Status indicating that a conditional call forwarding
supplementary service is currently active and operative will be sent to
the served mobile subscriber each time an outgoing call is made, see
figure 3.2.

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

e.g. ALERTING

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code, SS-Status))

NOTE: The SS-Code will be the common SS‑Code for all conditional call
forwarding services.

Figure 3.2: Notification to the served mobile subscriber that a
conditional call forwarding service is active

### 3.1.2 Forwarded‑to mobile subscriber side

The forwarded‑to mobile subscriber will receive a NotifySS operation
containing the SS‑Notification indicating that the incoming call is a
forwarded call. When available, the SS‑Code of the invoked forwarding
service is also included, see figure 3.3.

When multiple forwarding occurs the value of the SS‑Code shall relate to
the last invoked forwarding service.

In addition the forwarded-to mobile subscriber will receive the
redirecting party BCD number and optionally, a redirecting party
subaddress.

The redirecting party BCD number information element is made up of a
number of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

In addition to or instead of the redirecting party\'s digits, the
subscriber may be given the following information:

\- screening indicator;

\- presentation indicator.

Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.

The redirecting party subaddress information element is made up of a
number of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

MS Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFNRy, SS-Notification))

Redirecting party BCD number (screening indicator, presentation
indicator, redirecting party digits),

Redirecting party subaddress

NOTE: If the specific call forwarding service is not known the common
SS‑Code for \"all forwarding SS\" will be used.

Figure 3.3: Notification to the forwarded‑to mobile subscriber that the
incoming call is a forwarded call

### 3.1.3 Calling mobile subscriber side

As a subscription option, the served mobile subscriber can request that
the calling mobile subscriber receives a NotifySS operation containing
the SS‑Notification indicating that the call has been forwarded. When
available, the SS‑Code of the invoked forwarding service is also
included, see figure 3.4.

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFNRy, SS-Notification))

NOTE: If the specific call forwarding service is not known the common
SS‑Code for \"all forwarding SS\" will be used.

Figure 3.4: Notification to the calling mobile subscriber that the call
is forwarded

3.2 Registration
----------------

The following information has to be registered in the network:

‑ the ForwardedToNumber, which may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress;

‑ information as to whether all calls or all calls of a specific basic
service should be forwarded;

‑ the duration of the no reply condition timer.

### 3.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber

A CFNRy registration request from a mobile user shall include the
SS‑Code of the forwarding service to be registered and possibly the
applicable BasicServiceCode and NoReplyConditionTime. If the
BasicServiceCode is not included, the request applies to all basic
services. If the NoReplyConditionTime is not included, the previous
value set by the mobile user or network operator applies.

If the registration is successful, the CFNRy service will be registered
and activated. The network will then send a return result indicating
acceptance of the request, including the ForwardedToNumber and possibly
the applicable BasicService (group) code and NoReplyConditionTime. If
the request applied to a single elementary basic service group, the
ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a ForwardedToSubAddress. In
other cases the result shall not contain a ForwardedToSubAddress. The
result may also contain an SS‑Status parameter. If the MS does not send
an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the network shall
send an SS‑Status in the result. If the MS does send an SS Version
Indicator in the invocation request then the inclusion of SS‑Status in
the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included the network shall
set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall ignore the
contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See figure 3.5.

Note that the use of SS‑Status is to provide backwards compatibility
with phase 1.

If the system cannot accept a registration request, a corresponding
error indication is returned to the served mobile subscriber that CFNRy
registration was not successful. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = RegisterSS (CFNRy, BasicServiceCode,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress, NoReplyConditionTime,
LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = RegisterSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress, NoReplyConditionTime))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic
services. If NoReplyConditionTime is not included the value previously
registered in the network applies. The ForwardedToNumber may be
accompanied by a ForwardedToSubAddress. The SS‑Code may also indicate
the code for \"all conditional forwarding SS\", as specified in
subclause 2.2.1, or the code for \"all forwarding SS\", as specified in
subclause 1.2.1. The SS‑Status may not be included in all cases, see
text.

Figure 3.5: Registration of call forwarding on no reply

The presence of longFTN support is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

3.3 Erasure
-----------

A previous registration can be erased in one of three ways:

‑ the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration with an
appropriate control procedure;

‑ the subscriber can register information for CFNRy for the specific
basic service to another directory number, thus causing the previous
registration of CFNRy to be overridden;

‑ all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the
supplementary service (administrative handling).

### 3.3.1 Erasure by the served mobile subscriber

A CFNRy erasure request from a mobile subscriber may include the
BasicServiceCode. If this is not the case, the erasure applies to all
basic services.

If the erasure is successful, the CFNRy service will be erased (and
automatically deactivated). The network will then send a return result
indicating acceptance of the request. The result is formatted according
to the options shown below:

‑ The result includes the BasicService (group) Code for which CFNRy was
erased. The result may also contain an SS‑Status parameter. If the MS
does not send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the
network shall send an SS‑Status in the result. If the MS does send an SS
Version Indicator in the invocation request then the inclusion of
SS‑Status in the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included the
network shall set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall
ignore the contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See
figure 3.6.

Note that the use of SS‑Status is to provide backwards compatibility
with phase 1.

‑ If the request did not include a BasicServiceCode, and the erasure was
successful for all basic services, the network may send an empty return
result to the MS. This option applies whether or not an SS Version
Indicator is received from the MS.

If the network cannot accept the erasure request, the status of CFNRy in
the network remains unchanged. An error indication will then be returned
to the served mobile subscriber that erasure of CFNRy was unsuccessful.
Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = EraseSS (CFNRy, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = EraseSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic
services. The SS‑Code may also indicate the code for \"all conditional
forwarding SS\" or the code for \"all forwarding SS\". The SS‑Status may
not be included in all cases, see text.

Figure 3.6: Erasure of call forwarding on no reply

3.4 Activation
--------------

An explicit CFNRy activation request shall contain the SS‑Code of the
supplementary service to be activated and possibly the BasicServiceCode
the request applies to. If a BasicServiceCode is not included in the
activation request the request applies to all basic services against
which a CFNRy forwarded‑to number is registered. The user shall receive
appropriate notification of acceptance, rejection or partial acceptance
of the CFNRy activation request, see figure 3.7.

Error values (which are used in the two latter situations) are specified
in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (CFNRy, LongFTNsupported,
BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ActivateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The SS‑Code may also indicate the code \"all conditional
forwarding SS\" group, as specified in subclause 2.2.1, or the \"all
forwarding SS\" group, as specified in subclause 1.2.1.

Figure 3.7: Activation of call forwarding on no reply

The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS
23.082 \[15\].

3.5 Deactivation
----------------

An explicit CFNRy deactivation request shall contain the SS‑Code of the
supplementary service to be deactivated and possibly the
BasicServiceCode the request applies to. If a BasicServiceCode is not
included in the deactivation request the request applies to all basic
services against which CFNRy is activated. The user shall receive
appropriate notification of acceptance or rejection of the CFNRy
deactivation request, see figure 3.8.

Error values to be used in the latter situation are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.

Deactivation shall not lead to erasure of the information registered in
the network.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (CFNRy, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = DeactivateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The SS‑Code may also indicate \"all conditional forwarding SS\"
group or the \"all forwarding SS\" group.

Figure 3.8: Deactivation of call forwarding on no reply

3.6 Interrogation
-----------------

**Data request**

The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested
this procedure the network shall return the following information:

‑ in response to a general data request (i.e. not including a
BasicServiceCode) the served mobile subscriber should be given the
following data for each basic service group to which CFNRy is
registered:

‑ the SS‑Status indicating whether the supplementary service is \"not
active\", \"active and operative\" or \"active and quiescent\";

‑ the associated ForwardedToNumber which shall not be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress;

‑ the duration of the no reply condition timer,

see figure 3.9.

If CFNRy is not registered for any basic service groups, only the
SS‑Status parameter indicating \"not registered\" is returned.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CFNRy, LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber, NoReplyConditionTime))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The ForwardedToNumber shall not be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The return result may consist of a list of
parameters, each relating to a specific basis service group.

Figure 3.9: Interrogation of active call forwarding on no reply for all
basic services

‑ in response to a specific request (i.e. containing one particular
BasicService (group) code, the served mobile subscriber should receive
the SS‑Status parameter, indicating whether or not CFNRy is registered,
including information as to whether or not it is active and operative or
active and quiescent for that basic service group. If CFNRy is
registered for the interrogated basic service group, the associated
ForwardedToNumber and the duration of the no reply condition timer shall
be given, see figure 3.10. If the request applied to a single elementary
basic service group, the ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. In other cases the result shall not contain a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport
is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

If CFNRy is not registered for the interrogated BasicService (group)
code, only the SS‑Status parameter indicating \"not registered\" is
returned.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CFNRy, BasicServiceCode,
LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress, NoReplyConditionTime))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress.

Figure 3.10: Interrogation of active call forwarding on no reply for one
particular basic service

The values \"all forwarding SS\" and \"all conditional forwarding SS\"
shall not be sent over the air interface by the MS in an interrogation.
If an interrogation is received containing one of these codes the
network shall send a return error component. The condition for the
presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

3.7 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 3.7.1 Network only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

A CFNRy registration request which contains a ForwardedToSubaddress
shall be rejected by the network if any network element involved is of
protocol version 1.

Note that a CFNRy activation or deactivation request will be rejected by
the network is any network element involved is of protocol version 1.

### 3.7.2 MS only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In response to a CFNRy interrogation request, where the SS Version
Indicator is not received from the MS, the network shall only return
data for basic service groups to which CFNRy is activated and operative.
Data shall not be returned for basic service groups to which CFNRy is
deactivated. This means that the subscriber is not always aware of the
true state of the service.

In response to a CFNRy registration or erasure request, where the SS
Version Indicator is not received from the MS, the network shall always
include the SS‑Status parameter.

4 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
============================================================

4.1 Normal operation
--------------------

### 4.1.1 Served mobile subscriber side

When call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable, all incoming
calls for the specified basic service(s) when the mobile subscriber is
not reachable, will be forwarded without being offered to the served
mobile subscriber.

When CFNRc is active, the ability of the served mobile subscriber to
originate calls is not affected. However, a NotifySS operation
containing the SS‑Status indicating that a conditional call forwarding
service is currently active and operative will be sent to the served
mobile subscriber each time an outgoing call is made, see figure 4.1.

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

e.g. ALERTING

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code, SS-Status))

NOTE: The SS‑Code will be the common SS‑Code for all conditional call
forwarding services.

Figure 4.1: Notification to the served mobile subscriber that a
conditional call forwarding service is active

### 4.1.2 Forwarded‑to mobile subscriber side

The forwarded‑to mobile subscriber will receive a NotifySS operation
containing the SS‑Notification indicating that the incoming call is a
forwarded call. When available, the SS‑Code of the invoked forwarding
service is also included, see figure 4.2.

When multiple forwarding occurs the value of the SS‑Code shall relate to
the last invoked forwarding service.

In addition the forwarded-to mobile subscriber will receive the
redirecting party BCD number and optionally, a redirecting party
subaddress.

The redirecting party BCD number information element is made up of a
number of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

In addition to or instead of the redirecting party\'s digits, the
subscriber may be given the following information:

\- screening indicator;

\- presentation indicator.

Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.

The redirecting party subaddress information element is made up of a
number of information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.

MS Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFNRc, SS-Notification))

Redirecting party BCD number (screening indicator, presentation
indicator, redirecting party digits),

Redirecting party subaddress

NOTE: If the specific call forwarding service is not known the common
SS‑Code for call forwarding SS will be used.

Figure 4.2: Notification to the forwarded‑to mobile subscriber that the
incoming call is a forwarded call

### 4.1.3 Calling mobile subscriber side

As a subscription option, the served mobile subscriber can request that
the calling mobile subscriber receives a NotifySS operation containing
the SS‑Notification indicating that the call has been forwarded. When
available, the SS‑Code of the invoked forwarding service is also
included, see figure 4.3.

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CFNRc, SS-Notification))

NOTE: If the specific call forwarding service is not known the common
SS‑Code for all forwarding SS will be used.

Figure 4.3: Notification to the calling mobile subscriber that the call
is forwarded

4.2 Registration
----------------

The following information has to be registered in the network:

‑ the ForwardedToNumber which may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress;

‑ information as to whether all calls or all calls of a specific basic
service should be forwarded.

### 4.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber

A CFNRc registration request from a mobile user shall include the
SS‑Code of the forwarding service to be registered and possibly the
BasicServiceCode the request applies to. If the BasicServiceCode is not
included, the request applies to all basic services.

If the registration is successful, the CFNRc will be registered and
activated. The network will then send a return result indicating of
acceptance of the request, including the ForwardedToNumber and possibly
the applicable BasicService (group) code to which CFNRc is registered.
If the request applied to a single elementary basic service group, the
ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a ForwardedToSubAddress. In
other cases the result shall not contain a ForwardedToSubAddress. The
result may also contain an SS‑Status parameter. If the MS does not send
an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the network shall
send an SS‑Status in the result. If the MS does send an SS Version
Indicator in the invocation request then the inclusion of SS‑Status in
the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included the network shall
set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall ignore the
contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See figure 4.4.

Note that the use of SS‑Status is to provide backwards compatibility
with phase 1.

If the registration is successful, the CFNRc will be registered and
activated. The network will then send a return result indicating of
acceptance of the request, including the ForwardedToNumber to which
CFNRc is registered. If no BasicServiceCode was included in the
registration request it is not included in the return result either, see
figure 4.4.

If the system cannot accept a registration request, a corresponding
error indication is returned to the served mobile subscriber that CFNRc
registration was not successful. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = RegisterSS (CFNRc, BasicServiceCode,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress, LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = RegisterSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic
services. The ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The SS‑Code may also indicate the code for \"all
conditional forwarding SS\", as specified in subclause 2.2.1, or the
code for \"all forwarding SS\", as specified in subclause 1.2.1. The
SS‑Status may not be included in all cases, see text.

Figure 4.4: Registration of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable

The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS
23.082 \[15\].

4.3 Erasure
-----------

A previous registration can be erased in one of three ways:

‑ the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration with an
appropriate control procedure;

‑ the subscriber can register information for CFNRc for the specific
basic service to another directory number, thus causing the previous
registration of CFNRc to be overridden;

‑ all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the
supplementary service (administrative handling).

### 4.3.1 Erasure by the served mobile subscriber

A CFNRc erasure request from a mobile subscriber may include the
BasicServiceCode. If this is not the case, the erasure applies to all
basic services.

If the erasure is successful, the CFNRc service will be erased (and
automatically deactivated). The network will then send a return result
indicating acceptance of the request. The result is formatted according
to the options shown below:

‑ The result includes the BasicService (group) Code for which CFNRc was
erased. The result may also contain an SS‑Status parameter. If the MS
does not send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the
network shall send an SS‑Status in the result. If the MS does send an SS
Version Indicator in the invocation request then the inclusion of
SS‑Status in the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included the
network shall set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall
ignore the contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See
figure 4.5.

Note that the use of SS‑Status is to provide backwards compatibility
with phase 1.

‑ If the request did not include a BasicServiceCode, and the erasure was
successful for all basic services, the network may send an empty return
result to the MS. This option applies whether or not an SS Version
Indicator is received from the MS.

If the network cannot accept the erasure request, the status of CFNRc in
the network remains unchanged. An error indication will then be returned
to the served mobile subscriber that erasure of CFNRc was unsuccessful.
Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = EraseSS (CFNRc, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = EraseSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic
services. The SS-Code may also indicate the code for \"all conditional
forwarding SS\" or the code for \"all forwarding SS\". The SS‑Status may
not be included in all cases, see text.

Figure 4.5: Erasure of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable

4.4 Activation
--------------

An explicit CFNRc activation request shall contain the SS‑Code of the
supplementary service to be activated and possibly the BasicServiceCode
the request applies to. If a BasicServiceCode is not included in the
activation request the request applies to all basic services against
which a CFNRc forwarded‑to number is registered. The user shall receive
appropriate notification of acceptance, rejection or partial acceptance
of the CFNRc activation request, see figure 4.6.

Error values (which are used in the two latter situations) are specified
in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (CFNRc, LongFTNsupported,
BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ActivateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The SS‑Code may also indicate the code \"all conditional
forwarding SS\" group, as specified in subclause 2.2.1, or the \"all
forwarding SS\" group, as specified in subclause 1.2.1.

Figure 4.6: Activation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable

The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS
23.082 \[15\].

4.5 Deactivation
----------------

An explicit CFNRc deactivation request shall contain the SS‑Code of the
supplementary service to be deactivated and possibly the
BasicServiceCode the request applies to. If a BasicServiceCode is not
included in the deactivation request the request applies to all basic
services against which CFNRc is activated. The user shall receive
appropriate notification of acceptance or rejection of the CFNRc
deactivation request, see figure 4.7.

Error values to be used in the latter situation are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.

Deactivation shall not lead to erasure of the information registered in
the network.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (CFNRc, BasicServiceCode))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = DeactivateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The SS‑Code may also indicate the \"all conditional forwarding
SS\" group or the \"all forwarding SS\" group.

Figure 4.7: Deactivation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable

4.6 Interrogation
-----------------

**Data request**

The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested
this procedure the network shall return the following information:

‑ in response to a general data request (i.e. not including a
BasicServiceCode) the served mobile subscriber should be given the
following data for each basic service group to which CFNRc is
registered:

‑ the SS‑Status indicating whether the supplementary service is \"not
active\", \"active and operative\" or \"active and quiescent\";

‑ the associated ForwardedToNumber which shall not be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress,

see figure 4.8.

If CFNRc is not registered for any basic service groups, only the
SS‑Status parameter indicating \"not registered\" is returned.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CFNRc, LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode, SS-Status,
ForwardedToNumber))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The ForwardedToNumber shall not be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The return result may consist of a list of
parameters, each relating to a specific basic service group.

Figure 4.8: Interrogation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber not
reachable active for all basic services

‑ in response to a specific request (i.e. containing one particular
BasicService (group) code), the served mobile subscriber should receive
the SS‑Status parameter, indicating whether or not CFNRc is registered,
including information as to whether or not it is active and operative or
active and quiescent for that basic service group. If CFNRc is
registered, the associated ForwardedToNumber shall be given, see
figure 4.9. If the request applied to a single elementary basic service
group, the ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress. In other cases the result shall not contain a
ForwardedToSubAddress. The condition for the presence of longFTNsupport
is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

If CFNRc is not registered for the interrogated BasicService (group)
code, only the SS‑Status parameter indicating \"not registered\" is
returned.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CFNRc, BasicServiceCode,
LongFTNsupported))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS\
(BasicServiceCode, SS-Status, ForwardedToNumber, ForwardedToSubAddress))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

NOTE: The ForwardedToNumber may be accompanied by a
ForwardedToSubAddress.

Figure 4.9: Interrogation of active call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable for one particular basic service

The values \"all forwarding SS\" and \"all conditional forwarding SS\"
shall not be sent over the air interface by the MS in an interrogation.
If an interrogation is received containing one of these codes the
network shall send a return error component. The condition for the
presence of longFTNsupport is specified in 3GPP TS 23.082 \[15\].

4.7 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 4.7.1 Network only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

A CFNRc registration request which contains a ForwardedToSubaddress
shall be rejected by the network if any network element involved is of
protocol version 1.

Note that a CFNRc activation or deactivation request will be rejected by
the network is any network element involved is of protocol version 1.

### 4.7.2 MS only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In response to a CFNRc interrogation request, where the SS Version
Indicator is not received from the MS, the network shall only return
data for basic service groups to which CFNRc is activated and operative.
Data shall not be returned for basic service groups to which CFNRc is
deactivated. This means that the subscriber is not always aware of the
true state of the service.

In response to a CFNRc registration or erasure request, where the SS
Version Indicator is not received from the MS, the network shall always
include the SS‑Status parameter.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- ------ ----------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR     \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.82                                    Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.082             R99         3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#11     24.082             Rel-4       4.0.0         Release 4 after CN\#11
  CN\#16     24.082             Rel-4       4.0.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.082             Rel-5       5.0.0         Release 5 after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.082             Rel-6       6.0.0         Release 6 after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.082             Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#37     24.082      0001   Rel-7       7.1.0         Long FTN supported is not listed in registration, activation and interrogation message
  CT\#42     24.082             Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  CT\#44     24.082      0003   Rel-8       8.1.0         Error in implementing CP-070543 \"Long FTN supported is not listed in registration, activation and interrogation message\"
  2009-12    24.082      \-     Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.082      \-     Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.082      \-     Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.082      \-     Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.082      \-     Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.082      \-     Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.082      \-     Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.082      \-     Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- ------ ----------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
