Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#introduction)

[6](#scope)

[6](#normative-references)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#cross-phase-compatibility)

[7](#barring-of-outgoing-calls)

[7](#normal-operation)

[8](#registration)

[8](#activation)

[9](#deactivation)

[10](#interrogation)

[11](#invocation-and-erasure)

[11](#cross-phase-compatibility-1)

[11](#network-only-supports-gsm-phase-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber)

[11](#ms-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber)

[11](#barring-of-incoming-calls-other-than-anonymous-call-rejection)

[11](#normal-operation-1)

[12](#registration-1)

[12](#activation-1)

[13](#deactivation-1)

[14](#interrogation-1)

[15](#invocation-and-erasure-1)

[15](#cross-phase-compatibility-2)

[15](#network-only-supports-gsm-phase-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-1)

[15](#ms-only-supports-protocol-version-1-control-of-ss-by-the-subscriber-1)

[15](#anonymous-call-rejection)

[16](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword Introduction 0 Scope
0.1 Normative references 0.2 Abbreviations 0.3 Cross phase compatibility
1 Barring of outgoing calls 1.1 Normal operation 1.2 Registration 1.3
Activation 1.4 Deactivation 1.5 Interrogation 1.6 Invocation and erasure
1.7 Cross phase compatibility 1.7.1 Network only supports GSM Phase 1
control of SS by the subscriber 1.7.2 MS only supports protocol version
1 control of SS by the subscriber 2 Barring of incoming calls other than
Anonymous Call Rejection 2.1 Normal operation 2.2 Registration 2.3
Activation 2.4 Deactivation 2.5 Interrogation 2.6 Invocation and erasure
2.7 Cross phase compatibility 2.7.1 Network only supports GSM Phase 1
control of SS by the subscriber 2.7.2 MS only supports protocol version
1 control of SS by the subscriber 3 Anonymous Call Rejection Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of call barring supplementary services within the 3GPP
system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

Introduction
============

The present document includes references to features which are not part
of the Phase 2+ Release 96 of the GSM Technical specifications. All
subclauses which were changed as a result of these features contain a
marker (see table below) relevant to the particular feature. GSM 10.01
defines the correspondence between these features and GSM yearly
releases.

The following table lists all features that were introduced after
Release 96.

  --------------- --------------
  Feature         Designator
  CAMEL Phase 2   \$(CAMEL2)\$
  --------------- --------------

0 Scope
=======

This Technical Specification (TS) specifies the procedures used at the
radio interface (reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for
normal operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation,
invocation and interrogation of call barring supplementary services.
Provision and withdrawal of supplementary services is an administrative
matter between the mobile subscriber and the service provider and cause
no signalling on the radio interface.

In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.

3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP
TS 22.004, GSM 02.8x and GSM 02.9x‑series.

Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS
23.011, GSM 03.8x and GSM 03.9x‑series.

The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007
and 3GPP TS 24.008.

The following supplementary services belong to the call restriction
supplementary services and are described in this specification:

\- Barring of outgoing calls (clause 1):\
- Barring of all outgoing calls (BAOC) (Barring program 1);\
- Barring of outgoing international calls (BOIC) (Barring program 2);\
- Barring of outgoing international calls EXCEPT those directed to the
home PLMN country\
(BOIC-exHC) (Barring program 3).

\- Barring of incoming calls (clause 2):\
- Barring of all incoming calls (BAIC) (Barring program 1);\
- Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country\
(BIC-Roam) (Barring program 2);

\- Anonymous Call Rejection (ACR) (Barring program 3).

0.1 Normative references
------------------------

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary
services\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3;
General aspects\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary
services specification; General aspects\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary
services specification; Formats and coding\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) Supplementary Service; Stage
2\".

0.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in this specification are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.

0.3 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

For the following supplementary services, a number of changes exist
between this specification and the protocol version 1 specification:

\- Barring of outgoing calls;

\- Barring of incoming calls.

The main body of this specification assumes that all network entities
comply with this version of the service. In each case an additional
subclauses 1.7 and 2.7 defines the additional requirements for when one
or more network entities or the MS complies with the protocol version 1
specifications for the supplementary service procedures.

1 Barring of outgoing calls
===========================

1.1 Normal operation
--------------------

When a barring program relating to outgoing calls is active and
operative for a basic service, each call set up related to that basic
service and not allowed by the barring program will be refused by the
network. In this case a NotifySS operation containing the SS-Status
indicating that a barring program relating to outgoing calls is
currently active and operative will be sent to the served mobile
subscriber in a clearing message (see figure 1.1). For SMS, RP cause
"Call barred\" shall be sent to MS (see figure 1.2).

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code, SS-Status))

NOTE 1: The SS-Code will be the common code for outgoing barring
services.

NOTE 2: \$(CAMEL2)\$ The DISCONNECT and RELEASE messages were introduced
because of CAMEL Phase 2.

Figure 1.1: Notification to the served mobile subscriber that barring of
outgoing circuit switched calls is active

MS Network

RP-DATA

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

RP-ERROR (RP-cause)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 1.2: Notification to the served mobile subscriber that barring of
MO SMS is active

When a barring program is active (operative or quiescent), the ability
of the served mobile subscriber to set up emergency calls is not
affected, irrespective of the basic service to which the barring program
applies.

When a barring program relating to outgoing calls is active (operative
or quiescent), the ability of the served mobile subscriber to receive
calls is not affected.

1.2 Registration
----------------

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by subscriber using
password\", the subscriber has to register a call barring password at
provision time. Furthermore the served mobile subscriber can change the
call barring password by a registration procedure at any time.

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by service provider\",
an attempt to register a new call barring password will be denied.

The procedure to register a new password is specified in 3GPP TS 24.010.

1.3 Activation
--------------

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by subscriber using
password\", the supplementary service is activated for a basic service
if the subscriber has requested so by means of an activation procedure
for that basic service. If the subscriber does not indicate a specific
basic service, the activation applies to all basic services. The
subscriber may use the call barring password at activation (see
figure 1.2).

If the activation is successful, the service will be activated. The
network will then send a return result indicating acceptance of the
request. The result is formatted according to the options shown below:

\- The result includes the Basic Service group Code(s) to which the
service is activated. The result may also contain an SS-Code and
SS-Status parameter. If the MS does not send an SS Version Indicator in
the invocation request then these parameters shall be presented in the
result. If the MS does send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation
request then these parameters are optional in the result. If the
SS-Status is included the network shall set it to reflect the state of
the service. If the SS-Code is included then it shall contain the
SS-Code of the service which has been activated. The MS shall ignore the
contents of the SS-Code and SS-Status parameters if they are received.

Note that the use of SS-Code and SS-Status is to provide backwards
compatibility with GSM Phase 1.

\- If the request did not include a BasicServiceCode, and the activation
was successful for all basic services, the network may send an empty
return result to the MS. This option applies whether or not an SS
Version Indicator is received from the MS.

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by service provider\",
an attempt to activate the service will be denied and the served mobile
subscriber receives an error indication (see figure 1.3).

Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode))

> Password procedure according to 3GPP TS 24.010

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ActivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode,
SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 1.2: Activation of a barring program

NOTE: The SS-Code will be one of the specific outgoing barring codes. If
BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic services. The
SS-Code and SS-Status may not be included in the result in all cases
(see text).

1.4 Deactivation
----------------

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by subscriber using
password\", the supplementary service is deactivated for a basic service
if the subscriber has requested deactivation by means of a deactivation
procedure for that basic service. The subscriber may use the call
barring password at deactivation (see figure 1.3).

The deactivation request of a barring program may specify the basic
service. If the subscriber does not indicate a specific basic service,
the deactivation applies to all basic services (see figure 1.3).

If the deactivation is successful, the service will be deactivated. The
network will then send a return result indicating acceptance of the
request. The result is formatted according to the options shown below:

\- The result includes the Basic Service group Code(s) to which the
service is deactivated. The result may also contain an SS-Code and
SS-Status parameter. If the MS does not send an SS Version Indicator in
the invocation request then these parameters shall be presented in the
result. If the MS does send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation
request then these parameters are optional in the result. If the
SS-Status is included the network shall set it to reflect the state of
the service. If the SS-Code is included then it shall contain the
SS-Code of the service which has been deactivated. The MS shall ignore
the contents of the SS-Code and SS-Status parameters if they are
received.

Note that the use of SS-Code and SS-Status is to provide backwards
compatibility with GSM Phase 1.

\- If the request did not include a BasicServiceCode, and the
deactivation was successful for all basic services, the network may send
an empty return result to the MS. This option applies whether or not an
SS Version Indicator is received from the MS.

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by service provider\",
an attempt to deactivate the supplementary service will be denied and
the served mobile subscriber receives an error indication (see
figure 1.3). Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode))

> Password procedure according to 3GPP TS 24.010

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = DeactivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode,
SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 1.3: Deactivation of barring of outgoing calls

NOTE: The SS-Code may be one of the specific outgoing barring codes, the
common code for the outgoing barring services, or the SS-Code for all
call barring services. If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to
all basic services. The SS-Code and SS-Status may not be included in the
result in all cases (see text).

1.5 Interrogation
-----------------

The interrogation procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about data stored in the PLMN. After having requested this
procedure the network shall return a list of all basic service groups
for which the service is active (see figure 1.4).

If there is no basic service group for which the service is active, an
SS-Status will be returned indicating that the service is
\"deactivated\".

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (SS-Code))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode))

or

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 1.4: Interrogation of a barring program

NOTE: The SS-Code may be one of the specific outgoing barring codes.

1.6 Invocation and erasure
--------------------------

Invocation and erasure are not applicable to barring programs.

1.7 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 1.7.1 Network only supports GSM Phase 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In this case there is no relevant cross phase compatibility problem.

### 1.7.2 MS only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In this case there is no relevant cross phase compatibility problem.

2 Barring of incoming calls other than Anonymous Call Rejection
===============================================================

2.1 Normal operation
--------------------

When a barring program relating to incoming calls is active and
operative for a basic service, each incoming call set-up related to that
basic service and not allowed by the barring program will be refused by
the network. In this case a NotifySS operation containing the SS-Status
indicating that a barring program relating to incoming calls is
currently active and operative will be sent to the calling mobile
subscriber in a clearing message (see figure 2.1).

MS Network

SETUP

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code, SS-Status))

Figure 2.1: Notification to the calling mobile subscriber that at the
called\
subscriber side barring is active

NOTE: The SS-Code will be the common code for incoming barring services.

When barring of incoming calls is active (operative or quiescent), the
ability of the served mobile subscriber to originate calls is not
affected.

2.2 Registration
----------------

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by subscriber using
password\", the subscriber has to register a call barring password at
provision time. Furthermore the served mobile subscriber can change the
call barring password by a registration procedure at any time.

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by service provider\",
an attempt to register a new call barring password will be denied.

The procedure to register a new password is specified in 3GPP TS 24.010.

2.3 Activation
--------------

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by subscriber using
password\", the supplementary service is activated for a basic service
if the subscriber has requested so by means of an activation procedure
for that basic service. If the subscriber does not indicate a specific
basic service, the activation applies to all basic services. The
subscriber may use the call barring password at activation (see
figure 2.2).

If the activation is successful, the service will be activated. The
network will then send a return result indicating acceptance of the
request. The result is formatted according to the options shown below:

\- The result includes the Basic Service group Code(s) to which the
service is activated. The result may also contain an SS-Code and
SS-Status parameter. If the MS does not send an SS Version Indicator in
the invocation request then these parameters shall be presented in the
result. If the MS does send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation
request then these parameters are optional in the result. If the
SS-Status is included the network shall set it to reflect the state of
the service. If the SS-Code is included then it shall contain the
SS-Code of the service which has been activated. The MS shall ignore the
contents of the SS-Code and SS-Status parameters if they are received.

Note that the use of SS-Code and SS-Status is to provide backwards
compatibility with GSM Phase 1.

\- If the request did not include a BasicServiceCode, and the activation
was successful for all basic services, the network may send an empty
return result to the MS. This option applies whether or not an SS
Version Indicator is received from the MS.

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by service provider\",
an attempt to activate the service will be denied and the served mobile
subscriber receives an error indication (see figure 2.2).

Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode))

> Password procedure according to 3GPP TS 24.010

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ActivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode,
SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 2.2: Activation of a barring program

NOTE: The SS-Code will be one of the specific incoming barring codes. If
BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to all basic services. The
SS-Code and SS-Status may not be included in the result in all cases
(see text).

2.4 Deactivation
----------------

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by subscriber using
password\", the supplementary service is deactivated for a basic service
if the subscriber has requested deactivation by means of a deactivation
procedure for that basic service. The subscriber may use the call
barring password at deactivation (see figure 2.3).

If the deactivation is successful, the service will be deactivated. The
network will then send a return result indicating acceptance of the
request. The result is formatted according to the options shown below:

\- The result includes the Basic Service group Code(s) to which the
service is deactivated. The result may also contain an SS-Code and
SS-Status parameter. If the MS does not send an SS Version Indicator in
the invocation request then these parameters shall be presented in the
result. If the MS does send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation
request then these parameters are optional in the result. If the
SS-Status is included the network shall set it to reflect the state of
the service. If the SS-Code is included then it shall contain the
SS-Code of the service which has been deactivated. The MS shall ignore
the contents of the SS-Code and SS-Status parameters if they are
received.

Note that the use of SS-Code and SS-Status is to provide backwards
compatibility with GSM Phase 1.

\- If the request did not include a BasicServiceCode, and the
deactivation was successful for all basic services, the network may send
an empty return result to the MS. This option applies whether or not an
SS Version Indicator is received from the MS.

If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring service: by service provider\",
an attempt to deactivate the supplementary service will be denied and
the served mobile subscriber receives an error indication (see
figure 2.3).

Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode))

> Password procedure according to 3GPP TS 24.010

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = DeactivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode,
SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 2.3: Deactivation of barring of incoming calls

NOTE: The SS-Code may be one of the specific incoming barring codes, the
common code for the incoming barring services, or the SS-Code for all
call barring services. If BasicServiceCode is not included it applies to
all basic services. The SS-Code and SS-Status may not be included in the
result in all cases (see text).

2.5 Interrogation
-----------------

The interrogation procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested
this procedure the network shall return a list of all basic service
groups for which the service is active (see figure 2.4).

If there is no basic service group for which the service is active, an
SS-Status will be returned indicating that the service is
\"deactivated\".

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (SS-Code))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (BasicServiceCode))

or

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 2.4: Interrogation of a barring program

NOTE: The SS-Code may be one of the specific incoming barring codes.

2.6 Invocation and erasure
--------------------------

Invocation and erasure are not applicable to barring programs.

2.7 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 2.7.1 Network only supports GSM Phase 1 control of SS by the subscriber

In this case there is no relevant cross phase compatibility problem.

### 2.7.2 MS only supports protocol version 1 control of SS by the subscriber

The NotifySS operation containing the SS-Status indicating that a
barring program relating to incoming calls is currently active and
operative shall be sent to the calling subscriber only in the RELEASE
COMPLETE message, if the MS only supports GSM Phase 1.

3 Anonymous Call Rejection
==========================

Activation, deactivation and interrogation of the status of the ACR
supplementary service are supported by USSD procedure (see 3GPP TS
23.088 \[9\]).

Normal operation is also specified in 3GPP TS 23.088 \[9\].

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR       \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.88                                      Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.088               R99         3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#11     24.088               Rel-4       4.0.0         Approved at CN\#11
  CN\#16     24.088               Rel-4       4.0.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.088               Rel-5       5.0.0         Rel-5 created after CN\#16
  CN\#19     24.088      0001r2   Rel-6       6.0.0         Introducing SMS Call Barring in PS domain
  CT\#36     24.088               Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.088               Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  2009-12    24.088      \-       Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.088      \-       Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  CT\#53     24.088      0002r1   Rel-11      11.0.0        Addition of Anonymous Call Rejection in the CS domain
  2014-09    24.088      \-       Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.088      \-       Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.088      \-       Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.088      \-       Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.088      \-       Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------
