Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#cross-phase-compatibility)

[6](#network-initiated-unstructured-supplementary-service-data-operations)

[6](#unstructured-supplementary-service-data-request)

[6](#normal-operation)

[8](#unstructured-supplementary-service-data-notification)

[8](#normal-operation-1)

[10](#mobile-initiated-unstructured-supplementary-service-data-operations)

[10](#normal-operation-2)

[12](#cross-phase-compatibility-1)

[12](#network-only-supports-protocol-version-1-of-unstructured-supplementary-service-data-operations)

[12](#mobile-station-only-supports-protocol-version-1-of-unstructured-supplementary-service-data-operations)

[13](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 Cross phase compatibility 5 Network initiated
unstructured supplementary service data operations 5.1 Unstructured
supplementary service data request 5.1.1 Normal operation 5.2
Unstructured supplementary service data notification 5.2.1 Normal
operation 6 Mobile initiated unstructured supplementary service data
operations 6.1 Normal operation 6.2 Cross phase compatibility 6.2.1
Network only supports protocol version 1 of unstructured supplementary
service data operations 6.2.2 Mobile station only supports protocol
version 1 of unstructured supplementary service data operations Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

This TS specifies the stage 3 description of the Unstructured
Supplementary Service Data (USSD) operations within the 3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

1 Scope
=======

The present document gives the stage 3 description of the Unstructured
Supplementary Service Data (USSD) operations.

The group of unstructured supplementary service data operations is
divided into two different classes:

‑ Network initiated unstructured supplementary service data operations
(clause 5);

‑ Mobile initiated unstructured supplementary service data operations
(clause 6).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary
services specification; Formats and coding\".

3 Abbreviations
===============

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.

4 Cross phase compatibility
===========================

For the mobile initiated USSD operations, a number of changes exist
between the present document and the protocol version 1 specification.
For these operations the main body of the present document assumes that
all network entities comply with this version of the service. In this
case an additional subclause defines the additional requirements for
when one or more network entities or the Mobile Station (MS) complies
with the protocol version 1 specifications for the USSD operations.

5 Network initiated unstructured supplementary service data operations
======================================================================

5.1 Unstructured supplementary service data request
---------------------------------------------------

### 5.1.1 Normal operation

The network invokes an USSD request by sending a REGISTER message
containing a UnstructuredSS‑Request invoke component to the MS.

The MS shall respond to the request by sending a FACILITY message
containing the user\'s mobile subscriber\'s response in a return result
component. The network shall pass the data received in the response to
the application handling USSD operations and shall wait for the response
of the application. The application may either continue or terminate the
dialogue.

When the application continues the dialogue, it may initiate another
USSD operation by sending a FACILITY message (see figure 5.2). The
operation may either be an USSD request or notification (see subclause
5.1.2).

When the application terminates the dialogue, the network shall clear
the transaction by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message. The MS may also
clear the transaction at any time by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message
upon the request of the user.

If the MS is unable to process the request received from the network, it
shall return an error indication by sending a FACILITY message
containing a return error component. Error values are specified in 3GPP
TS 24.080.

When the MS receives an USSD operation in parallel to any call
independent supplementary service transaction, it shall respond with a
return error component in a RELEASE COMPLETE message, containing the
\"USSD‑Busy\" error as specified in 3GPP TS 24.080, to indicate the
failure in handling a parallel USSD operation. However, the network is
allowed to initiate USSD operations in parallel to call related
transactions.

MS Network

REGISTER

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = UnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Return result = UnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 5.1: Single network initiated USSD request

NOTE: The MS may clear the transaction at any time by sending a RELEASE
COMPLETE upon request of the user.

MS Network

REGISTER

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = UnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Return result = UnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = UnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Return result = UnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

.

.

.

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 5.2: Multiple network initiated USSD request

NOTE 1: The MS may clear the transaction at any time by sending a
RELEASE COMPLETE upon request of the user.

NOTE 2: The second USSD operation may also be an USSD notification. The
network may use the on‑going transaction for sending further USSD
operations. Only one additional USSD request is shown.

5.2 Unstructured supplementary service data notification
--------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2.1 Normal operation

The network invokes an USSD notification by sending a REGISTER message
to the MS containing a UnstructuredSS‑Notify invoke component.

The MS shall acknowledge the operation by sending a FACILITY message
containing an empty result component to the network. The application may
either continue or terminate the dialogue.

When the application continues the dialogue, it may initiate another
USSD operation by sending a FACILITY message (see figure 5.4). The
operation may either be an USSD request (see subclause 5.1.1) or
notification.

When the application terminates the dialogue, the network shall clear
the transaction by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message. The MS may also
clear the transaction at any time by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message
upon request of the user.

If the MS is unable to process the request received from the network, it
shall return an error indication by sending a FACILITY message
containing a return error component. Error values are specified in 3GPP
TS 24.080.

When the MS receives an USSD operation in parallel to any call
independent supplementary service transaction, it shall respond with a
return error component in a RELEASE COMPLETE message, containing the
\"USSD‑Busy\" error as specified in 3GPP TS 24.080, to indicate the
failure in handling a parallel USSD operation. However, the network is
allowed to initiated USSD operations in parallel to call related
transactions.

MS Network

REGISTER

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = UnstructuredSS-Notify (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Return result)

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 5.3: Single network initiated USSD notification

NOTE: The MS may clear the transaction at any time by sending a RELEASE
COMPLETE upon request of the user.

MS Network

REGISTER

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = UnstructuredSS-Notify (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Return result)

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = UnstructuredSS-Notify (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Return result)

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

.

.

.

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Figure 5.4: Multiple network initiated USSD notification

NOTE 1: The MS may clear the transaction at any time by sending a
RELEASE COMPLETE upon request of the user.

NOTE 2: The second USSD operation may also be an USSD request. The
network may use the on‑going transaction for sending further USSD
operations. Only one additional USSD notification is shown.

6 Mobile initiated unstructured supplementary service data operations
=====================================================================

6.1 Normal operation
--------------------

The MS invokes an USSD request by sending a REGISTER message to the
network containing a ProcessUnstructuredSS‑Request invoke component.

The receiving network entity shall pass the data received in the request
to the application handling USSD operations and shall wait for the
response of the application. The application may either terminate the
dialogue or may request several times further information in order to
perform the requested operation (see figures 6.1 and 6.2).

When the application requests more information to process the request,
the network shall initiate an USSD request (see subclause 5.1.1), using
the on‑going transaction (see figure 6.2). The MS shall return the
user\'s response in a FACILITY message containing a return result
component. The network shall pass the data received in the response to
the application. If the MS is unable to process the request received
from the network, it shall return an error indication by sending a
FACILITY message containing a return error component.

When the application terminates the dialogue, the network shall clear
the transaction by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message containing a
return result component. The MS may also clear the transaction at any
time by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message upon request of the user.

If the network is unable to process the request received from the MS, it
shall clear the transaction by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message
containing a return error component. Error values are specified in 3GPP
TS 24.080.

The MS shall not initiate USSD operations in parallel to any call
independent supplementary service transaction. Only one transaction for
USSD operations per user is allowed at a time. However, the MS is
allowed to initiate USSD operations in parallel to call related
transactions.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request
(ussd-DataCodingScheme, ussd-String))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 6.1: Mobile initiated USSD operation, network does not request
further information

NOTE: The MS may clear the transaction at any time by sending a RELEASE
COMPLETE upon request of the user.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = UnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Return result = UnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

.

.

.

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request
(ussd-DataCodingScheme, ussd-String))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 6.2: Mobile initiated USSD operation, network requests further
information

NOTE 1: The MS may clear the transaction at any time by sending a
RELEASE COMPLETE upon request of the user.

NOTE 2: The network may request further information several times. Only
one information request is shown. The network initiated USSD operation
may also be an USSD notification. Only a network initiated USSD request
is shown.

6.2 Cross phase compatibility
-----------------------------

### 6.2.1 Network only supports protocol version 1 of unstructured supplementary service data operations

If a mobile initiated USSD request using protocol version 2 is rejected
by the network, and the reason for the rejection is indicated either by
the problem code \"unrecognized operation\" or a cause \"Facility
rejected\", the MS shall assume that the network only supports protocol
version 1 of USSD operations. The MS shall re‑attempt the request by
using the appropriate protocol version 1 USSD operation without a SS
version indicator if the unstructured data entered by the user can be
coded as an IA5 string.

### 6.2.2 Mobile station only supports protocol version 1 of unstructured supplementary service data operations

A MS supporting only protocol version 1 invokes an USSD request by
sending a REGISTER message to the network containing a
ProcessUnstructuredSsData invoke component without a SS version
indicator. In this situation the network is not allowed to start a
network initiated USSD operation. If the application requires such an
operation for its proper function, the USSD operation sent by the MS
shall be rejected by the application. The network shall terminate the
transaction by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message with cause \"Facility
rejected\" (see 3GPP TS 24.008).

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- ---- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR   \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.90                                  Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.090           R99         3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#11     24.090           Rel-4       4.0.0         Approved at CN\#11
  CN\#16     24.090           Rel-4       4.0.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.090           Rel-5       5.0.0         Rel-5 created after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.090           Rel-6       6.0.0         Rel-6 created after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.090           Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.090           Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  2009-12    24.090      \-   Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.090      \-   Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.090      \-   Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.090      \-   Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.090      \-   Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.090      \-   Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.090      \-   Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.090      \-   Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- ---- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
