Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#normative-references)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#calling-name-presentation-cnap)

[6](#normal-operation)

[7](#interrogation)

[7](#activation-deactivation-registration-and-erasure)

[8](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 Normative
references 3 Abbreviations 4 Calling Name Presentation (CNAP) 4.1 Normal
operation 4.2 Interrogation 4.3 Activation, deactivation, registration
and erasure Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of line identification supplementary services within
the 3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

1 Scope
=======

This Technical Specification (TS ) specifies the procedures used at the
radio interface for normal operation, registration, erasure, activation,
deactivation, invocation and interrogation of name identification
supplementary services. Provision and withdrawal of supplementary
services is an administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and
the service provider and cause no signalling on the radio interface.

In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface are given. 3GPP TS
24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP
TS 22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.096
is related specially to name identification supplementary services.

Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS
23.011 and 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. Technical
specification 3GPP TS 23.096 is related specially to name identification
supplementary services.

The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007
and 3GPP TS 24.008.

The following supplementary services belong to the name identification
supplementary services and are described in this TS:

\- Calling name presentation (CNAP);

2 Normative references
======================

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.096: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Name identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Technical realization of supplementary services\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 23.096: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system(Phase
2+); Name identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".

3 Abbreviations
===============

Abbreviations used in the TS are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.

4 Calling Name Presentation (CNAP)
==================================

4.1 Normal operation
--------------------

The calling name identity is made up of calling party\'s name - up to 80
characters.

The MS shall be given one of the following in the name indicator:

\- calling name identity;

\- presentation indicator of presentation restricted;

\- presentation indicator of name unavailable; or

\- calling name identity and presentation restricted (for the case where
the CNAP override category is provisioned).

If the network has received a non-zero SS screening indicator from the
MS, then calling name information indicated above shall be sent to the
MS as defined in figure 1. If the network did not receive a non-zero SS
screening indicator form the MS, then calling name information shall not
be sent to the MS.

MS Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CNAP, nameIndicator ))

or

MS Network

SETUP

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

:

:

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CNAP, nameIndicator))

Figure 1: Notification by the network to the called mobile subscriber

4.2 Interrogation
-----------------

**Status Check**

The mobile subscriber can request the status of the supplementary
service and be informed if the service is provided to him/her.

MS Network

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CNAP))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return Result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return Error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 2: Interrogation of calling name identification presentation

4.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
------------------------------------------------------

Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service Calling Name presentation (CNAP) are not applicable.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- ---- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR   \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.96                                  Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.096           R99         3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#11     24.096           Rel-4       4.0.0         Approved at CN\#11
  CN\#16     24.096           Rel-4       4.0.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.096           Rel-5       5.0.0         Rel-5 created after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.096           Rel-6       6.0.0         Rel-6 created after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.096           Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.096           Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  2009-12    24.096      \-   Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.096      \-   Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.096      \-   Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.096      \-   Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.096      \-   Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.096      \-   Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.096      \-   Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.096      \-   Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- ---- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
