Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#explicit-call-transfer-ect)

[6](#normal-operation)

[7](#explicit-call-transfer-invocation)

[7](#notification-to-the-remote-parties)

[8](#notification-to-the-held-remote-party)

[8](#notification-to-the-active-or-alerting-remote-party)

[8](#activation-and-deactivation)

[9](#registration-erasure-and-interrogation)

[9](#support-by-old-mss)

[9](#explicit-call-transfer-invocation-1)

[10](#notification-to-the-remote-parties-1)

[11](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) 4.1 Normal operation 4.2
Explicit Call Transfer invocation 4.3 Notification to the remote parties
4.3.1 Notification to the held remote party 4.3.2 Notification to the
active or alerting remote party 4.4 Activation and deactivation 4.5
Registration, erasure and interrogation 5 Support by \"old\" MSs 5.1
Explicit Call Transfer invocation 5.2 Notification to the remote parties
Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.

This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of call transfer supplementary services within the
3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG
with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version
number as follows:

Version 3.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;

1 Scope
=======

The present document gives the stage 3 description of the call transfer
supplementary services.

The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio
interface (Reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of call transfer supplementary services. Provision and
withdrawal of supplementary services is an administrative matter between
the mobile subscriber and the service provider and cause no signalling
on the radio interface.

In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.

3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP
TS 22.004, 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.091 is
related specifically to call transfer supplementary services.

The technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP
TS 23.011, 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 23.091 is
related specifically to call transfer supplementary services.

The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007
and 3GPP TS 24.008.

The following supplementary services belong to the call transfer
supplementary services and are described in the present document:

‑ Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) (see clause 4).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile
Station (MS)\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 1\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD
)‑ Stage 1\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 22.091: \"Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary
services\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services
‑ Stage 2\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑
Stage 2\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑
Stage 2\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 23.091: \"Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary
service ‑ Stage 2\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)
access reference configuration\".

\[24\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3;
General aspects\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".

\[26\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary
services specification; General aspects\".

\[27\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary
services specification; Formats and coding\".

3 Abbreviations
===============

The abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR
21.905.

4 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
==============================

4.1 Normal operation
--------------------

The Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) function should be invoked in
association with two existing calls which one is answered and in the
held state and the other is answered and active or alerting.

The Mobile Station (MS) invokes the service by sending a FACILITY
message to the network containing the ECT request (ECT request). This
ECT request indicates to the network that the mobile subscriber wishes
the two calls to be connected together. The MS shall not change the
basic call state or the auxiliary state of either call when sending ECT
request.

The network will normally accept the ECT request and connect the two
calls, indicates the success of the ECT request to the served subscriber
and disconnect afterwards the served mobile subscriber from both calls
(see figure 1).

If the ECT request is not accepted, the network will indicate the error
to the served subscriber (see figure 1) and leaves the two calls to the
condition it was in prior to the ECT request. The network confirms with
the same transaction identifier. The detailed coding of the different
error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080. Which error value is used
in which error case is described below.

During the ECT operation the MS shall run a timer T~ECT~. This timer is
started when the operation is sent, and stopped when a response is
received from the network. If this timer expires the MS shall assume
that the operation has failed, locally release the invokeID, and may
re‑attempt the operation or inform the user of the failure.

4.2 Explicit Call Transfer invocation
-------------------------------------

MS Network

FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ExplicitCT)

DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-B/A-C)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result)

DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-C/A-B)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)

\<- - - - \-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 1: Invocation of Explicit Call Transfer

NOTE: A-B/A-C indicates a choice. The Transaction Identifier (TI) used
for the invocation of ECT shall be that of the active/answered call or
of the held call.\
A-C/A-B indicates the TI of the other call.

In the following table, the use of the different error values is
described:

Table 1: Error values

  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Error**               **Error case**
  IllegalSS‑Operation     ‑ operation violates the general rules applicable to the service
                          ‑ different calls and either off them or two are not TS 11 (telephony)
                          ‑ one or both of the calls are in the wrong call states
                          ‑ having only one call or one call is clearing
                          ‑ creation of a traffic channel loop
  SS‑ErrorStatus          ‑ the served subscriber has not subscribed to ECT
  SS‑NotAvailable         ‑ SS is not available in current location area
  SS‑Incompatibility      ‑ SS‑Interaction violation
  FacilityNotSupported    ‑ Facility not supported in VPLMN
  SystemFailure           ‑ problems in an entity or network resources
  ResourcesNotAvailable   ‑ problems to allocate resources
  CallBarred              ‑ contravention with the active barring program
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

4.3 Notification to the remote parties
--------------------------------------

If the network received a non‑zero SS Screening indicator from the
remote party\'s MS the network shall send a notification to the remote
party indicating that the call has been transferred and towards the
previously‑held party to indicate that he is now retrieved.

If the network did not receive a non‑zero SS Screening indicator from
the remote party\'s MS it shall not send a notification.

The content of the Notification Indicator and the Redirection Number in
detail is given in 3GPP TS 23.091 and the coding in 3GPP TS 24.080. For
the following it is assumed that the Line Identities of the remote
parties are available and allowed to be presented to the remote parties.

### 4.3.1 Notification to the held remote party

If ECT was invoked in the active state the previous‑held remote party
will be notified at the invocation of ECT (see figure 2).

MS Network

FACILITY (TI held call)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code = HOLD, CallOnHold-Indicator =
CallRetrieved),\
Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code = ECT,\
ECT-Indicator (ECT-CallState = active, Rdn = RemotePartyNumber of C)))

Figure 2: Notification of invocation (at active state) to held remote
party

If ECT was invoked in the alerting state the previous‑held remote party
will be notified at the invocation of ECT (figure 3) and again at the
receipt of the ANSWER message from the previous‑alerting remote party
(figure 4).

MS Network

FACILITY (TI held call)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code = HOLD, CallOnHold-Indicator =
CallRetrieved),\
Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code = ECT, ECT-Indicator (ECT-CallState =
alerting)))

Figure 3: Notification of invocation (at alerting state) to held remote
party

MS Network

FACILITY (TI previous held call)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code = ECT, ECT-Indicator (ECT-CallState
= active,\
Rdn = RemotePartyNumber of C)))

Figure 4: Notification to the previous-held remote party at receipt of
the ANSWER message\
by the previous-alerting remote party

### 4.3.2 Notification to the active or alerting remote party

MS Network

FACILITY (TI active or alerting call)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-Code = ECT, ECT-Indicator (ECT-CallState
= active,\
Rdn = RemotePartyNumber of B)))

Figure 5: Notification of invocation to previous-active or
previous-alerting remote party

4.4 Activation and deactivation
-------------------------------

Activation and deactivation of ECT cause no signalling on the radio
path.

4.5 Registration, erasure and interrogation
-------------------------------------------

Registration, erasure and interrogation of ECT are not applicable.

5 Support by \"old\" MSs
========================

MSs which do not explicitly support ECT are not precluded from
attempting to invoke ECT. It is however, an operator option to support
the invocation of ECT by these mobile stations. Where operators support
this option, the mechanism employed to offer the ECT service to these
MSs shall be USSD. However, it should be noted that it may not be
possible using this mechanism to offer the same degree of service to the
served subscriber as described in clause 4.

5.1 Explicit Call Transfer invocation
-------------------------------------

MS A invokes the service by sending a REGISTER message to the network
using a call independent supplementary service (SS) transaction, with
the facility information element, indicating
ProcessUnstructuredSS‑Request (the MMI is specified in 3GPP TS 22.030).

If the invocation of ECT is successful, then after the SS transaction
has been cleared, the network shall release the CC transactions.

If the invocation of ECT is not successful, then the CC transactions
shall not be released.

MS Network

REGISTER (PD=SS)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,

ussd-String = \<ECT Invocation String\>))

RELEASE COMPLETE (PD=SS)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return Result = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request
(ussd-DataCodingScheme,

ussd-String = \<Successful Text String\>))

DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI=A-B, PD=CC)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI=A-C, PD=CC)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

RELEASE COMPLETE (PD=SS)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - -

Facility (Return Result = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request
(ussd-DataCodingScheme,

ussd-String = \<Error Text string\>))

RELEASE COMPLETE (PD=SS)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE (PD=SS)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - - - - \-- - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 6: Invocation of Explicit Call Transfer for non supporting MSs

NOTE: The text strings \"\<Successful Text String\>\" and \"\<Error Text
String\>\" shall be defined by the network operator. Each network shall
define only one \"\<Successful Text String\>\" and only one \"\<Error
Text string\>\" for each error identified in table 1.

For Phase 1 USSD the operation ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request is replaced
by ProcessUnstructuredSS-Data.

5.2 Notification to the remote parties
--------------------------------------

No alternative procedures are defined for sending notifications to
remote parties indicating that the call has been transferred.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- ---- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec        CR   \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  Apr 1999   GSM 04.91                                  Transferred to 3GPP CN1
  CN\#03     24.091           R99         3.0.0         Approved at CN\#03
  CN\#11     24.091           Rel-4       4.0.0         Approved at CN\#11
  CN\#16     24.091           Rel-4       4.0.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.091           Rel-5       5.0.0         Rel-5 created after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.091           Rel-6       6.0.0         Rel-6 created after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.091           Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.091           Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  2009-12    24.091      \-   Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.091      \-   Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.091      \-   Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.091      \-   Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.091      \-   Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.091      \-   Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.091      \-   Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.091      \-   Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- ----------- ---- ----------- ------------- --------------------------------
