![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.2131944444444445in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#multicall-mc)

[6](#normal-operation)

[6](#mobile-originating-call-request-a-new-traffic-channel)

[7](#mobile-originating-call-reuse-an-existing-traffic-channel)

[8](#mobile-terminating-call-request-a-new-traffic-channel)

[10](#mobile-terminating-call-reuse-an-existing-traffic-channel)

[11](#mobile-terminating-call-unsuccessful-simultaneous-call-in-setup-case)

[11](#registration)

[11](#registration-by-the-served-mobile-subscriber)

[12](#interrogation)

[14](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Abbreviations 4 Multicall (MC) 4.1
Normal operation 4.1.1 Mobile originating call (request a new traffic
channel) 4.1.2 Mobile originating call (reuse an existing traffic
channel) 4.1.3 Mobile terminating call (request a new traffic channel)
4.1.4 Mobile terminating call (reuse an existing traffic channel) 4.1.5
Mobile terminating call (unsuccessful simultaneous Call in Setup case)
4.2 Registration 4.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber 4.3
Interrogation Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document gives the stage 3 description of the Multicall (MC)
supplementary service within the 3GPP system.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document gives the stage 3 description of the Multicall (MC)
supplementary service. The present document specifies the procedures
used by the radio interface for normal operation, registration and
interrogation of the Multicall supplementary service. Provision,
withdrawal, erasure, activation and deactivation of supplementary
services is an administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and
the service provider and causes no signalling on the radio interface.

3GPP TS 24.010 describes the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface.

3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.

Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP
TS 22.004, 3GPP TS 22.072, 3GPP TS 22.08x, 3GPP TS 22.09x-series and
3GPP TS 22.135. 3GPP TS 22.135 is related specifically to the Multicall
supplementary service.

The technical realisation of supplementary services are described in
3GPP TS 23.011, 3GPP TS 23.072, 3GPP TS 23.08x, 23.09x-series and 3GPP
TS 23.135. 3GPP TS 23.135 is related specifically to the Multicall
supplementary service.

The procedures for Call Control and Mobility Management at the layer 3
radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and 3GPP TS 24.008.

The following supplementary services are described in the present
document:

\- Multicall (MC) (see clause 4).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3GPP Vocabulary\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile
Station (MS)\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall Stage1\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary
services\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 23.135: \"Multicall supplementary service -- stage 2\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3
General aspects\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification
Core Network Protocol -- Stage 3\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary
services specification General aspects\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary
services specification Formats and coding\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 24.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD)
supplementary services ‑ Stage 3\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 22.135 apply.

Further related abbreviations are given in 3GPP TR 21.905.

4 Multicall (MC)
================

4.1 Normal operation
--------------------

All of the radio signalling specific to Multicall is at the served
mobile subscriber side. The radio signalling on the other side uses
basic call signalling procedures only.

The mobile subscriber supporting Multicall shall include the stream
identifier (SI) information element. The purpose of the stream
identifier (SI) information element is to associate a particular call
with a Radio Access Bearer (RAB), and to identify whether a new traffic
channel is requested for the call. Refer to TS 24.008 for the rules on
allocating stream identifiers.

### 4.1.1 Mobile originating call (request a new traffic channel)

If the served mobile subscriber initiates an outgoing call (A-B), the
mobile subscriber shall include the stream identifier (SI) information
element in the SETUP message. When there are no other ongoing calls, the
following rules apply:

\- The stream identifier value shall be equal to 1.

\- CC capabilities that indicate N**~br~**\_UE shall be included in the
SETUP message.

\- NW CC capabilities that indicate the network supports Multicall shall
be included in the CALL PROCEEDING message.

\- If the NW CC capabilities is not sent from the network, the mobile
station shall assume that the network does not support Multicall, and
shall not initiate an additional mobile originating call via a new
bearer.

\- If the network receives the SETUP message with a stream identifier
including an invalid content (SI value indicates other than 1 for the
first call), the network shall initiate call clearing with cause \#95
\"semantically incorrect message\".

**MS Network**

SETUP (TI(A-B), SI=1, CC capabilities)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CALL PROCEEDING (TI(A-B), NW CC capabilities)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

RELEASE COMPLETE (TI(A-B), Cause \#95)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Figure 1: The first mobile originating call

When there are one or more ongoing call(s) and the served mobile
subscriber B wants to initiate another call (B-C) via a new bearer, the
mobile station B shall include a stream identifier (B-C) in the SETUP
message. If there are several active calls and the mobile subscriber B
wants to initiate another call via a new bearer, the mobile station B
shall include a stream identifier that is not used for the active calls.

\- If the network receives a SETUP message with a stream identifier
including an invalid content (SI = no bearer), the network shall
initiate call clearing with cause \#95 \"semantically incorrect
message\".

\- If the network receives a SETUP message with a stream identifier
including the requesting entity cannot be provided (SI value is already
used by other active call), the network shall initiate call clearing
with cause \#44 \"requested circuit/channel not available\".

\- If the network can not permit the call because the mobile subscriber
is not provisioned with the Multicall supplementary service, the network
shall initiate call clearing with cause \#50 \"requested facility not
subscribed\".

\- If the network can not permit the call because the Multicall limit
(N**~br~**\_SN or N**~br~**\_User) is exceeded, the network shall
initiate call clearing with cause \#63 \"service or option not
available\". In this case, a NotifySS operation containing the
Multicall-indicator that indicates the number of active bearers in use
would exceed the maximum value will be sent to the served mobile
subscriber B in a clearing message. Multicall-indicator includes:

\- N~br~\_SN exceeded.

\- N~br~\_User exceeded.

**MS Network**

SETUP (TI(B-C), SI(B-C))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CALL PROCEEDING (TI(B-C))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

RELEASE COMPLETE (TI(B-C), Cause \#95)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

RELEASE COMPLETE (TI(B-C), Cause \#44)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

RELEASE COMPLETE (TI(B-C), Cause \#50)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

RELEASE COMPLETE (TI(B-C), Cause \#63)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (SS-code, multicall-indicator))

Figure 2: The additional mobile originating call

### 4.1.2 Mobile originating call (reuse an existing traffic channel)

When there are one or more ongoing calls and the served mobile
subscriber B wants to initiate another call (B-C) via the existing
bearer, the subscriber will put one of the active calls (A‑B) on hold
first, and initiate the additional mobile originating call (B‑C).

The hold function shall be initiated by the mobile subscriber B and the
transaction identifier (TI) shall have the same value as the transaction
identifier (A‑B) of the existing call.

For the initiation of another call (B-C), the mobile station B shall
include the stream identifier (SI) in the SETUP message and the stream
identifier shall have the same value as the stream identifier (A-B) of
the existing call.

\- If the network receives a SETUP message with a stream identifier
including an invalid content (SI value indicates \"no bearer\"), the
network shall initiate call clearing with cause \#95 \"semantically
incorrect message\".

\- If the network receives a SETUP message with a stream identifier
including the requesting entity cannot be provided (SI value indicates
\"used for other active call(s) except held call\" or \"SI element is
missing\"), the network shall initiate call clearing with cause \#44
\"requested circuit/channel not available\".

**MS Network**

HOLD (TI(A-B))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE (TI(A-B))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

SETUP (TI(B-C), SI(A-B) )

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CALL PROCEEDING (TI(B-C))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

RELEASE COMPLETE (TI(B-C), Cause \#95)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

RELEASE COMPLETE (TI(B-C), Cause \#44)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Figure 3: The mobile originating call via an existing traffic channel

### 4.1.3 Mobile terminating call (request a new traffic channel)

If the served mobile subscriber accepts the arrival of an incoming call
(A-B), the mobile station shall include the stream identifier (SI)
information element in the CALL CONFIRMED message. When there are no
other ongoing calls, the following rules apply:

\- NW CC capabilities that indicate the network supports Multicall shall
be included in the SETUP message.

\- The stream identifier value shall be equal to 1.

\- CC capabilities that indicate N~br~\_UE shall be included in the CALL
CONFIRMED message.

\- If the NW CC capabilities is not sent from the network, the mobile
station shall assume that the network does not support Multicall, and
shall not initiate a mobile originating call via a new bearer.

\- If the network receives a CALL CONFIRMED message with a stream
identifier including an invalid content (SI value indicates other than 1
for the first call), the network shall initiate call clearing with cause
\#95 \"semantically incorrect message\".

**MS Network**

SETUP (TI(A-B), NW CC capabilities)

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

CALL CONFIRMED (TI(A-B), SI=1, CC capabilities)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

ALERTING (TI(A-B))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

DISCONNECT ((TI(A-B)), Cause \#95)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Figure 4: The first mobile terminating call

\- When there are one or more ongoing calls and the served mobile
subscriber B wants to accept another incoming call (B-C) via a new
bearer, the mobile station B shall include the stream identifier with
either of the following value in the CALL CONFIRMED message:

\- SI = new value (not used for any of the active calls) (Case1).

\- SI = \"No Bearer\" (Case2).

If the mobile station B includes the stream identifier with \"No
Bearer\" in the CALL CONFIRMED message, the mobile station B shall
include the stream identifier with a new value in the CONNECT message.

If the network receives a CALL CONFIRMED message with a stream
identifier including the request entity cannot be provided (SI value is
already in use), the network shall initiate call clearing with cause
\#44 \"requested circuit/channel not available\".

\- If the network receives a CONNECT message with a stream identifier
after receiving a CALL CONFIRMED message with an indicator to initiate a
new bearer (Case 1), the network shall initiate call clearing with cause
\#95 \"semantically incorrect message\".

\- If the network receives a CONNECT message with a stream identifier
including an invalid content ( SI = no bearer) after receiving CALL
CONFIRMED message with SI = no bearer (Case 2), the network shall
initiate call clearing with cause \#95 \"semantically incorrect
message\".

\- If the network receives a CONNECT message with a stream identifier
including the requested entity cannot provided (SI value is used for
other active call(s) except held call) after receiving CALL CONFIRMED
message with SI = no bearer (Case 2), the network shall initiate call
clearing with cause \#44 \"requested circuit/channel not available\".

**MS Network**

SETUP (TI(B-C))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

CALL CONFIRMED (TI(B-C), SI(B-C))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

ALERTING (TI(B-C))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CONNECT (TI(B-C))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause \#44)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause \#95)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Figure 5: The additional mobile terminating call (Case1)

**MS Network**

SETUP (TI(B-C))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

CALL CONFIRMED (TI(B-C), SI=\"No Bearer\")

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

ALERTING (TI(B-C))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

CONNECT (TI(B-C), SI(B-C))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause \#44)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause \#95)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Figure 6: The additional mobile terminating call (Case2)

### 4.1.4 Mobile terminating call (reuse an existing traffic channel)

When there are one or more active calls and the served mobile subscriber
B wants to accept another incoming call (B-C) via the existing bearer,
the subscriber will put one of the active calls (A‑B) on hold first, and
accept the additional mobile terminating call (B-C).

The hold function shall be initiated by the mobile subscriber B and the
transaction identifier (TI) shall be the transaction identifier (A‑B) of
the existing call.

To accept the other incoming call (B-C), the mobile station B shall
include the stream identifier (SI) with value \"No bearer\" in the CALL
CONFIRMED message. Mobile station B shall include the stream identifier
(A-B) in the CONNECT message. (See Figure 7). If the mobile station B is
located in the network not supporting multicall, it shall include the SI
with value 1 in the CALL CONFIRMED message.

If the Call waiting SS is invoked and the mobile subscriber B wants to
accept the waiting call, the mobile subscriber B can put an existing
call on hold and then accept the waiting call. In this case the mobile
station B shall include the stream identifier (SI) with value \"No
bearer\" in the CALL CONFIRMED message, and include the stream
identifier value which is used for the held call in the CONNECT message.

\- If the network receives a CALL CONFIRMED message with a stream
identifier including the request entity cannot be provided (SI value is
already in use) the network shall initiate call clearing with cause \#44
\"requested circuit/channel not available\".

\- If the network receives a CONNECT message with a stream identifier
including an invalid content ( SI = no bearer) after receiving CALL
CONFIRMED message with SI = no bearer, the network shall initiate call
clearing with cause \#95 \"semantically incorrect message\".

\- If the network receives a CONNECT message with a stream identifier
including the requested entity cannot provided (SI value is used for
other active call(s) except held call) after receiving CALL CONFIRMED
message with SI = no bearer (Case 2), the network shall initiate call
clearing with cause \#44 \"requested circuit/channel not available\".

**MS Network**

SETUP (TI(B-C))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

CALL CONFIRMED (TI(B-C), SI=\"No bearer\")

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

HOLD (TI(A-B))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE (TI(A-B))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

CONNECT (TI(B-C), SI(A-B))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause \#44)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause \#95)

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Figure 7: The mobile terminating call via an existing traffic channel

### 4.1.5 Mobile terminating call (unsuccessful simultaneous Call in Setup case)

If there is one call (A-B) that has not reached the established phase
and the served mobile station B receives another incoming call (B-C),
the served mobile subscriber B may not be able to accept the additional
incoming call (B-C). In this case, the mobile subscriber B can initiate
call clearing with cause \#47 \"no resources available, unspecified\".

**MS Network**

SETUP (TI(A-B))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

CALL CONFIRMED (TI(A-B), SI(A-B))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

ALERTING (TI(A-B))

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

SETUP (TI(B-C))

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

RELEASE COMPLETE (TI(B-C), Cause\#47)

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Figure 8: The mobile terminating call in the unsuccessful case of
simultaneous Call in Setup

4.2 Registration
----------------

The following information has to be registered in the network:

\- The maximum number of bearers chosen by the user, N**~br~**\_User.

### 4.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber

A Multicall registration request from a mobile user shall include the
SS-Code of Multicall. The request applies to all basic services.

If the registration is successful, the Multicall service will be
registered. The network will then send a return result indicating
acceptance of the request including the value of N**~br~**\_User.

If the MS does not send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation
request then the network shall send an SS‑Status in the result.

If the MS does send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request
then the inclusion of SS‑Status in the result is optional. If the
SS‑Status is included the network shall set it to reflect the state of
the service. The MS shall ignore the contents of the SS‑Status parameter
if one is received. See figure 9.

If the system cannot accept a registration request, a corresponding
error indication is returned to the served mobile subscriber that
Multicall registration was not successful. Error values are specified in
3GPP TS 24.080.

**MS Network**

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = RegisterSS (Multicall, N**~br~**\_User))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = RegisterSS (SS-Status, N**~br~**\_User))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 9: Registration of Multicall

4.3 Interrogation
-----------------

The interrogation procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain
information about the data stored in the PLMN. The network shall return
the following information:

\- The maximum number of bearers set by the user, N**~br~**\_User.

\- The maximum number of bearers defined by Multicall subscription,
N**~br~**\_SB.

\- The maximum number of bearers supported by serving network,
N**~br~**\_SN.

See figure 10.

**MS Network**

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (Multicall))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status, N**~br~**\_User,
N**~br~**\_SB, N**~br~**\_SN)

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

Figure 10: Interrogation of Multicall

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  ---------- -------- ------- ----------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TSG CN\#   Spec     CR      \<Phase\>   New Version   Subject/Comment
  CN\#07     24.135           R99         3.0.0         Approved in TSGN\#07
  CN\#08     24.135   001r2   R99         3.1.0         Clarifications of the Multicall procedures
  CN\#11     24.135           Rel-4       4.0.0         Approved at CN\#11
  CN\#14     24.135   003r1   Rel-4       4.1.0         Clarification on SI value for Mobile terminating call (reuse an existing traffic channel)
  CN\#16     24.135           Rel-4       4.1.1         References updated
  CN\#16     24.135           Rel-5       5.0.0         Rel-5 created after CN\#16
  CN\#26     24.135           Rel-6       6.0.0         Rel-6 created after CN\#26
  CT\#36     24.135           Rel-7       7.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6
  CT\#42     24.135           Rel-8       8.0.0         Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
  2009-12    24.135   \-      Rel-9       9.0.0         Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)
  2011-03    24.135   \-      Rel-10      10.0.0        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)
  2012-09    24.135   \-      Rel-11      11.0.0        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
  2014-09    24.135   \-      Rel-12      12.0.0        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)
  2015-12    24.135   \-      Rel-13      13.0.0        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)
  2017-03    24.135   \-      Rel-14      14.0.0        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)
  2018-06    24.135   \-      Rel-15      15.0.0        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)
  2020-07    24.135   \-      Rel-16      16.0.0        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)
  ---------- -------- ------- ----------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
