![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#ims-conferencing-management-object)

[6](#management-object-parameters)

[6](#general)

[6](#node-x)

[6](#xname)

[7](#xconf_factory_uri)

[7](#xext)

[8](#annex-a-informative-management-object-ddf)

[9](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 IMS
conferencing management object 5 Management object parameters 5.1
General 5.2 Node: /*\<X\>* 5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name 5.4
/*\<X\>*/Conf\_Factory\_URI 5.5 /*\<X\>*/Ext Annex A (informative):
Management object DDF Annex B (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

This document defines the IMS conferencing management object. The
management object is compatible with OMA Device Management protocol
specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using the OMA DM
Device Description Framework as described in the Enabler Release
Definition OMA-ERELD\_DM-V1\_2 \[3\].

The IMS conferencing management object consists of relevant parameters
that can be managed for IMS conferencing capabilities.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".

\[3\] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1\_2-20070209-A : \"Enabler Release Definition for
OMA Device Management, Version 1.2\".

\[4\] IETF RFC 4579 (August 2006): \"Session Initiation Protocol Call
Control - Conferencing for User Agents\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] apply.

The following terms and definitions given in in IETF RFC 4579 \[4\]
apply:

**Conference Factory URI**

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

CN Core Network

DDF Device Description Framework

DM Device Management

IMS IP Multimedia core network Subsystem

IP Internet Protocol

MO Management Object

OMA Open Mobile Alliance

SIP Session Initiation Protocol

UE User Equipment

4 IMS conferencing management object
====================================

The IMS conferencing management object is used to manage configuration
settings of the UE for IMS conferencing. The management object covers
parameters for IMS conferencing related capabilities. The management
object enables the management of the settings on behalf of the end user.

The Management Object Identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-conf:1.0.

Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.

Figure 1: The 3GPP Conferencing Management Object

5 Management object parameters
==============================

5.1 General
-----------

This clause describes the parameters for the IMS conferencing management
object.

5.2 Node: /*\<X\>*
------------------

This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more accounts for a
fixed node.

\- Occurrence: OneOrMore

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: N/A

The interior node is mandatory if the UE supports one or more IMS
conferencing capabilities. Support for a UE is defined by the related
roles as defined by the related IMS conferencing service.

NOTE: One node is normally used.

5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name
-----------------

The Name leaf is a name for the conferencing settings.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: chr

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: \<User displayable name\>

5.4 /*\<X\>*/Conf\_Factory\_URI
-------------------------------

The Conf\_Factory\_URI leaf defines a Conference Factory URI as defined
by IETF RFC 4579 \[4\] that is supported by a subscriber\'s network as
described in 3GPP TS 24.147 \[2\].

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: chr

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: \<A Conference Factory URI\>

5.5 /*\<X\>*/Ext
----------------

The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information
about the IMS conferencing management is being placed (vendor meaning
application vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the vendor extension is
identified by vendor specific name under the ext node. The tree
structure under the vendor identified is not defined and can therefore
include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: N/A

######## Annex A (informative): Management object DDF

This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own
DDF for the complete device. This DDF can include more features than
this minimal standardized version.

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

**\<!DOCTYPE MgmtTree PUBLIC \"-//OMA//DTD-DM-DDF 1.2//EN\"**

**\"http://www.openmobilealliance.org/tech/DTD/DM\_DDF-V1\_2.dtd\"\>**

\<MgmtTree\>

**\<VerDTD\>1.2\</VerDTD\>**

**\<Man\>\--The device manufacturer\--\</Man\>**

\<Mod\>\--The device model\--\</Mod\>

**\<Node\>**

**\<NodeName\> IMS conferencing** \</**NodeName\>**

**\<DFProperties\>**

**\<AccessType\>**

**\<Get/\>**

**\</AccessType\>**

**\<Description\>IMS conferencing configuration
parameters\</Description\>**

**\<DFFormat\>**

**\<node/\>**

**\</DFFormat\>**

**\<Occurrence\>**

**\<OneOrMore/\>**

**\</Occurrence\>**

**\<Scope\>**

**\<Permanent/\>**

**\</Scope\>**

**\<DFTitle\>The IMS conferencing Management Object.\</DFTitle\>**

**\<DFType\>**

**\<DDFName\>urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-conf:1.0\</DDFName\>**

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

**\<Node\>**

**\<NodeName\>Conference\_Factory\_URI\</NodeName\>**

**\<DFProperties\>**

**\<AccessType\>**

**\<Get/\>**

**\<Replace/\>**

**\</AccessType\>**

**\<DFFormat\>**

\<chr/\>

**\</DFFormat\>**

**\<Occurrence\>**

**\<ZeroOrOne/\>**

**\</Occurrence\>**

**\<Scope\>**

**\<Dynamic/\>**

**\</Scope\>**

**\<DFTitle\>The Confernece Factory URI.\</DFTitle\>**

**\<DFType\>**

**\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>**

**\</DFType\>**

**\</DFProperties\>**

\</Node\>

**\<Node\>**

**\<NodeName\>Ext\</NodeName\>**

**\<!\-- The Extension node starts here. \--\>**

**\<DFProperties\>**

**\<AccessType\>**

**\<Get/\>**

**\<Replace/\>**

**\</AccessType\>**

**\<DFFormat\>**

**\<node/\>**

**\</DFFormat\>**

**\<Occurrence\>**

**\<ZeroOrOne/\>**

**\</Occurrence\>**

**\<Scope\>**

**\<Dynamic/\>**

**\</Scope\>**

**\<DFTitle\>A collection of all Extension objects.\</DFTitle\>**

**\<DFType\>**

**\<DDFName/\>**

**\</DFType\>**

**\</DFProperties\>**

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\</MgmtTree\>

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- --------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                             
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                    **Old**   **New**   **WG doc**
  2009-10                                                             Version 0.0.0: First proposal                                                                                    0.0.0     
  2009-10                                                             Version 0.0.1 due to comments in CT1\#61                                                               0.0.0     0.0.2     
  2009-11                                                             Author proposes to use urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-conf:1.0                                                    0.0.1     0.0.2     
  2009-11                                                             Comments received on proposal for urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-conf:1.0. This needs to be documented as an EN   0.0.2     0.0.3     
  2009-11              CP-46        CP-090888                         Version 1.0.0 created by MCC for presentation to CT-46 for information and approval                    0.0.3     1.0.0     
  2009-12              CP-46        CP-091044                         Formal number added                                                                                    1.0.0     1.0.1     
  2009-12              CP-46                                          Version 9.0.0 created by MCC after approval at CT-46                                                   1.0.1     9.0.0     
  2010-03              CP-47        CP-100135      0001               Missing \"Ext\" interior node                                                                          9.0.0     9.1.0     C1-100451
  2011-03              CP-51        CP-110174      0002               MO identifier registered by OMNA                                                                       9.1.0     9.2.0     C1-110074
  2011-03              CP-51                                          Upgrade to Rel-10                                                                                      9.2.0     10.0.0    
  2012-09              CP-57                                          Upgrade to Rel-11                                                                                      10.0.0    11.0.0    
  2014-09              CP-65                                          Upgrade to Rel-12                                                                                      11.0.0    12.0.0    
  2015-12              CP-70                                          Upgrade to Rel-13                                                                                      12.0.0    13.0.0    
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- --------- ------------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                       
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                          **New version**
  2017-03              CT75                                                   Upgrade to Rel-14                                                            14.0.0
  2018-06              SA80          \-          \-       \-                  Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                               15.0.0
  2018-12              CT-82         CP-183077   0004               F         Addition of the object identifier in the DDF of the 3GPP Management Object   16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
