![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#general)

[6](#overview)

[6](#nas-aspect)

[6](#lcs-aspect)

[6](#lcs-support-capabilities)

[6](#ue-support-of-lcs)

[7](#mme-support-of-lcs)

[7](#support-of-lcs-signaling)

[7](#general-1)

[7](#lcs-operations)

[7](#general-2)

[7](#network-initiated-location-services-operations)

[7](#location-notification)

[7](#general-3)

[8](#normal-operation)

[9](#network-initiated-positioning-information-transport)

[10](#mobile-initiated-location-services-operations)

[10](#mobile-originated-location-request-mo-lr)

[10](#general-4)

[11](#normal-operation-1)

[15](#mobile-initiated-positioning-information-transport)

[16](#lcs-messages-and-coding)

[16](#messages-for-common-lcs-operations)

[16](#messages-for-e-utran-lcs-operations-only)

[16](#lpp-messages)

[16](#downlink-positioning-information-transport-using-lpp-messages)

[16](#uplink-positioning-information-transport-using-lpp-messages)

[17](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations
4 General 4.1 Overview 4.1.1 NAS aspect 4.1.2 LCS aspect 4.2 LCS Support
capabilities 4.2.1 UE support of LCS 4.2.2 MME support of LCS 5 Support
of LCS signaling 5.1 General 5.2 LCS operations 5.2.0 General 5.2.1
Network initiated location services operations 5.2.1.1 Location
Notification 5.2.1.1.0 General 5.2.1.1.1 Normal operation 5.2.1.2
Network initiated Positioning Information Transport 5.2.2 Mobile
initiated location services operations 5.2.2.1 Mobile Originated
Location Request (MO-LR) 5.2.2.1.0 General 5.2.2.1.1 Normal operation
5.2.2.2 Mobile initiated Positioning Information Transport 5.3 LCS
messages and coding 5.3.1 Messages for common LCS operations 5.3.2
Messages for E-UTRAN LCS operations only 5.3.2.1 LPP Messages 5.3.2.1.1
Downlink Positioning Information Transport using LPP messages 5.3.2.1.2
Uplink Positioning Information Transport using LPP messages Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the operations and information coding for
the Non-access Stratum (NAS) layer protocol for supporting the Location
Services (LCS) in the Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN).

The present document is applicable to the User Equipment (UE) and to the
Mobility Management Entity (MME) in the Evolved Packet System (EPS).

The present document is developed in accordance to the general
principles stated in 3GPP TS 23.271 \[1\].

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of LCS\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved
Packet System (EPS)\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"LTE Positioning Protocol\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary
services specification; Formats and coding \".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 24.030: \"LCS Supplementary service operations; Stage 3\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 29.171: \"Definition of SLs interface for Control Plane
LCS\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 23.272: \"Circuit Switched (CS) fallback in Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 2\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 23.272 \[8\] apply:

**CS fallback**

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

EPS Evolved Packet System

IE Information Element

E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network

LCS Location Services

LPP LTE Positioning Protocol

LTE Long Term Evolution

MME Mobility Management Entity

MO-LR Mobile Originated Location Request

MT-LR Mobile Terminated Location Request

NAS Non-access Stratum

UE User Equipment

4 General 
=========

4.1 Overview 
------------

### 4.1.1 NAS aspect

To enable transfer of application protocol messages between the MME and
the UE, a generic \"container\" message is defined on the downlink
(Downlink Generic NAS Transport message) and the uplink (Uplink Generic
NAS Transport message). The message protocol and procedures are
described in 3GPP TS 24.301 \[3\].

### 4.1.2 LCS aspect

Location Services (LCS) uses the generic containers provided by the NAS
Generic Transport mechanism to transfer LCS signalling messages between
the UE and the network.

Currently, container in the generic transport messages can carry the
following LCS information:

\- LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP) messages (Refer to 3GPP TS 36.355
\[4\])

\- Both downlink and uplink LPP messages are supported

\- A Routing Identifier is transported as the Additional Information IE
in Uplink/Downlink Generic NAS Transport message for LPP messages (Refer
to 3GPP TS 24.301 \[3\])

\- Location services messages

\- Messages for MO-LR operations (Refer to 3GPP TS 24.080 \[5\])

\- Messages for MT-LR LCS location notification (Refer to 3GPP TS 24.080
\[5\])

4.2 LCS Support capabilities
----------------------------

### 4.2.1 UE support of LCS

The UE announces to the network its ability to support LCS notification
mechanism and/or LPP messages using the UE Network Capability IE defined
in 3GPP TS 24.301 \[3\].

### 4.2.2 MME support of LCS

The network announces to the UE its ability to support LCS MO-LR
mechanism in E-UTRAN and GERAN/UTRAN using the EPS network feature
support IE defined in 3GPP TS 24.301\[3\]. These information are taken
into account by the UE, in addition to UE\'s LCS and CSFB capabilities
for UE to determine whether to initiate EPC-MO-LR procedure or CS
fallback procedure for CS-MO-LR in GERAN/UTRAN as specified in 3GPP TS
23.272 \[8\], subclause 8.3.1.

5 Support of LCS signaling
==========================

5.1 General
-----------

This clause defines the E-UTRAN LCS operations (subclause 5.2) and the
format and coding of the messages (subclause 5.3).

The messages defined in this subclause can be transported in the
Downlink Generic NAS Transport message and the Uplink Generic NAS
Transport message defined in 3GPP TS 24.301 \[3\].

5.2 LCS operations
------------------

### 5.2.0 General

The operations defined in this subclause are for E-UTRAN LCS support
only.

The MO-LR operation and the Location Notification operation for E-UTRAN
LCS are similar to that for GERAN and UTRAN LCS. The operations for
GERAN and UTRAN location signalling support are defined in 24.030 \[6\].

### 5.2.1 Network initiated location services operations

#### 5.2.1.1 Location Notification

##### 5.2.1.1.0 General

The Location Notification operation enables the MME to trigger the
end-user notification verification process on the UE using NAS
signaling. The NAS signaling (see 5.2.1.1.1) are transported using the
Downlink Generic NAS Transport message and the Uplink Generic NAS
Transport message defined in 3GPP TS 24.301 \[3\]. Figure 5.2.1.1.0-1
illustrates an example of the NAS signaling transport for an EPC-MT-LR
session.

Figure 5.2.1.1.0-1: NAS signaling transport for Location Notification

NOTE: The optional Additional Information IE of the Downlink/Uplink
Generic NAS Transport message is not used when the LCS Location
Notification signaling are transported in the Generic Message Container.

##### 5.2.1.1.1 Normal operation

The network invokes a location notification procedure by sending a
REGISTER message containing a LCS-LocationNotification invoke component
to the UE. This may be sent either to request verification for MT-LR or
to notify about already authorized MT-LR.

In case of privacy verification the UE shall respond to the request by
sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message containing the mobile subscriber\'s
response in a return result component (see figure 5.2.1.1.1-1).

If the timer T(LCSN) expires in the network before any response from the
UE (e.g. due to no response from the user), the network shall interpret
this by applying the default treatment defined in TS 3GPP 23.271 \[2\]
(i.e. disallow location if barred by subscription and allow location if
allowed by subscription).

In the case of location notification no response is required from the
UE, the UE shall terminate the dialogue by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE
message containing a LocationNotification return result.

If the UE is unable to process the request received from the network, it
shall return an error indication by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message
containing a return error component. Error values are specified in
3GPP TS 24.080 \[5\].

**UE Network**

REGISTER

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Invoke = LCS-LocationNotification (notificationType,
locationType, lcsClientExternalID, lcsClientName, lcsRequestorID,
lcsCodeword, lcsServiceTypeId))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Return result = LCS-LocationNotification
(verificationResponse))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -\>

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Figure 5.2.1.1.1-1: Location Notification

#### 5.2.1.2 Network initiated Positioning Information Transport

The MME sends LPP message and the associated Routing Identifier in the
Downlink Generic NAS Transport message (Refer to 3GPP TS 24.301 \[3\]).
Figure 5.2.1.2-1: illustrates an example of the NAS signaling transport
for downlink LPP messages.

Figure 5.2.1.2-1: NAS signaling transport for downlink LPP messages

### 5.2.2 Mobile initiated location services operations

#### 5.2.2.1 Mobile Originated Location Request (MO-LR)

##### 5.2.2.1.0 General

The MO-LR operation enables the UE to launch MO positioning session
using NAS signaling. The NAS signaling (see 5.2.2.1.1 and 5.2.2.1.2) are
transported using the Downlink Generic NAS Transport message and the
Uplink Generic NAS Transport message defined in 3GPP TS 24.301 \[3\].
Figure 5.2.2.1.0-1 illustrates an example of the NAS signaling transport
for an EPC-MO-LR session.

Figure 5.2.2.1.0-1: NAS signaling transport for MO-LR

NOTE: The optional Additional Information of the Downlink/Uplink Generic
NAS Transport message is not used when the MO-LR signaling are
transported in the Generic Message Container.

##### 5.2.2.1.1 Normal operation

The UE invokes a MO-LR by sending a REGISTER message to the network
containing a LCS-MOLR invoke component. SS Version Indicator value 1 or
above shall be used.

The receiving network entity shall initiate the handling of location
request in the network. The network shall pass the result of the
location procedure to the UE by sending a FACILITY message to the UE
containing a LCS-MOLR return result component. When location estimate is
kept in the network entity and this information satisfies the requested
accuracy and the requested maximum age of location, then the network may
reuse this information and the positioning measurement procedure may be
skipped.

The network shall pass the result of the location procedure to the UE
only if the location estimate is given in a format that the UE supports,
as indicated by either the presence (and content) or the absence of the
parameter supportedGADShapes, which may be sent by the UE in the
LCS-MOLR operation.

The UE may terminate the dialogue by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message
in the case of single location request (see figure 5.2.2.1.1-1). The UE
may also initiate another location request operation by sending a
FACILITY message to the network containing a LCS-MOLR invoke component
(see figure 5.2.2.1.1-2). After the last location request operation the
UE shall terminate the dialogue by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message.

If the network is unable to successfully fulfil the request received
from the UE (e.g. to provide a location estimate or location assistance
information), it shall clear the transaction by sending a RELEASE
COMPLETE message containing a return error component. Error values are
specified in 3GPP TS 24.080 \[5\]. If the network is unable to provide a
location estimate due to lack of support in the UE for the type of shape
of the location estimate, then it shall use the error Facility Not
Supported.

If the network has returned a result to the UE in a FACILITY message
but, after some PLMN administered time period has elapsed, has not
received either a new location request operation in a FACILITY message
or a RELEASE COMPLETE message from the UE, the network may clear the
transaction by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message.

During the MO-LR operation the UE shall run a timer T(LCSL). This timer
is started when the operation is sent, and stopped when a response is
received from the network. If this timer expires the UE shall assume
that the operation has failed, and may terminate the dialogue by sending
a RELEASE COMPLETE message, and shall inform the user of the failure.

**UE Network**

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = LCS-MOLR (molr-Type, lcs-QoS, lcsClientExternalID,
mlc-Number, supportedGADShapes, lcsServiceTypeID, ageOfLocationInfo,
locationType, pseudonymIndicator, multiplePositioningProtocolPDUs))

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

Facility (Return result = LCS-MOLR (velocityEstimate,
add-LocationEstimate))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Figure 5.2.2.1.1-1: Single mobile originated location request

**UE Network**

REGISTER

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = LCS-MOLR (molr-Type, lcs-QoS, lcsClientExternalID,
mlc-Number, supportedGADShapes, lcsServiceTypeID, ageOfLocationInfo,
locationType, pseudonymIndicator, multiplePositioningProtocolPDUs))

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

(Return result = LCS-MOLR (velocityEstimate, add-LocationEstimate))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

FACILITY

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Facility (Invoke = LCS-MOLR (molr-Type, lcs-QoS, lcsClientExternalID,
mlc-Number, supportedGADShapes, lcsServiceTypeID, ageOfLocationInfo,
locationType, pseudonymIndicator, multiplePositioningProtocolPDUs))

FACILITY

\<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

(Return result = LCS-MOLR (velocityEstimate, add-LocationEstimate))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Return error (Error))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - -

Facility (Reject (Invoke\_problem))

RELEASE COMPLETE

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>

Figure 5.2.2.1.1-2: Multiple mobile originated location requests

NOTE: Only the following IEs defined in MO-LR Invoke in 3GPP TS 24.080
\[5\] are used for E-UTRAN LCS:

\- molr-Type

\- lcs-QoS

\- lcsServiceTypeID

\- ageOfLocationInformation

\- locationType

\- mlc-Number

\- lcsClientExternalID

\- pseudonymIndicator

\- supportedGADShapes

\- multiplePositioningProtocolPDUs

NOTE: multiplePositioningProtocolPDUs IE is added to the LCS-MOLR Invoke
to allow for passing multiple UE positioning information LPP messages
(e.g. UE location measurements or UE capabilities) to the E-SMLC for
E-UTRAN LCS. Its ASN.1 description is given in 3GPP TS 24.080 \[5\].

#### 5.2.2.2 Mobile initiated Positioning Information Transport

The UE sends LPP message and the associated Routing Identifier in the
Uplink Generic NAS Transport message (Refer to 3GPP TS 24.301 \[3\]).
Figure 5.2.2.2-1 illustrates an example of the NAS signaling transport
for uplink LPP messages.

Figure 5.2.2.2-1: NAS signaling transport for uplink LPP messages

5.3 LCS messages and coding
---------------------------

### 5.3.1 Messages for common LCS operations

The LCS message format and information elements coding for the MO-LR and
the Location Notification operations (subclause 5.2) are defined in
24.080 \[5\] for the following messages:

\- Register message

\- Facility message

\- Release Complete message

### 5.3.2 Messages for E-UTRAN LCS operations only

#### 5.3.2.1 LPP Messages

##### 5.3.2.1.1 Downlink Positioning Information Transport using LPP messages

The MME shall set the Generic Message Container Type to \"LPP message
container\" in the Downlink Generic NAS Transport message.

The MME includes a Routing Identifier in the Additional Information IE
of the Downlink Generic NAS Transport message associated with the
positioning session between the MME and E-SMLC.

The Routing identifier is the Correlation ID, which is defined in 3GPP
TS 29.171 \[7\], so that the MME can map the Routing identifier to the
Correlation identifier when the MME receives an S1-AP Transport Message.

##### 5.3.2.1.2 Uplink Positioning Information Transport using LPP messages

The UE shall set the Generic Message Container Type to \"LPP message
container\" in the Uplink Generic NAS Transport message.

The UE includes a Routing Identifier received in the Additional
Information IE of the Downlink Generic NAS Transport message in the the
Additional Information IE of the Uplink Generic NAS Transport message.
(See editor\'s note below on Routing Identifier). This association of
the Routing Identifier is provided at the LPP level: the UpLink Generic
NAS Transport message carries an LPP message that is a response to or
instigated by the LPP message in the Downlink Generic NAS Transport
message.The Routing identifier is the Correlation ID, which is defined
in 3GPP TS 29.171 \[7\], so that the MME can map the Routing identifier
to the Correlation identifier when the MME receives an S1-AP Transport
Message.

Annex A (informative): Change history
-------------------------------------

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------ --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                       
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                        **Old**   **New**
  2010-03              CP\#47       CP-100053                         3GPP TS presented for approval in CT\#47   2.0.0     9.0.0
  2011-03              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)             9.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)             10.0.0    11.0.0
  2014-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)             11.0.0    12.0.0
  2015-12              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)             12.0.0    13.0.0
  2017-03              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)             13.0.0    14.0.0
  2018-06              CT\#80       \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)             14.0.0    15.0.0
  2020-07              CT\#88e      \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)             15.0.0    16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------ --------- ---------
