![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1083333333333334in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#flexible-alerting-fa)

[7](#introduction)

[7](#description)

[7](#general-description)

[8](#operational-requirements)

[8](#provisionwithdrawal)

[8](#requirements-on-the-originating-network-side)

[9](#requirements-on-the-terminating-network-side)

[9](#syntax-requirements)

[9](#signalling-procedures)

[9](#general)

[9](#activationdeactivation)

[9](#general-1)

[9](#demand-member-activation-of-a-subscribers-default-fa-groups)

[9](#demand-member-activation-of-a-specified-fa-group)

[10](#demand-member-deactivation-of-a-subscribers-default-fa-groups)

[10](#demand-member-deactivation-of-a-specified-fa-group)

[10](#registrationerasure)

[10](#interrogation)

[10](#general-2)

[10](#interrogation-using-ut-interface)

[10](#interrogation-using-the-sip-based-user-configuration)

[10](#invocation-and-operation)

[10](#actions-at-the-as-serving-the-originating-ue)

[10](#actions-at-the-as-serving-the-pilot-identity)

[11](#interaction-with-other-services)

[11](#communication-session-hold-hold)

[11](#terminating-identification-presentation-tip)

[11](#terminating-identification-restriction-tir)

[11](#originating-identification-presentation-oip)

[11](#originating-identification-restriction-oir)

[12](#conference-conf)

[12](#communication-diversion-services-cdiv)

[12](#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu)

[12](#communication-forwarding-busy-cfb)

[12](#communication-forwarding-no-reply-cfnr)

[12](#communication-forwarding-not-reachable-cfnrc)

[13](#communication-deflection-cd)

[13](#communication-forwarding-on-not-logged-in-cfnl)

[13](#message-waiting-indication-mwi)

[13](#communication-barring-cb)

[13](#explicit-communication-transfer-ect)

[13](#enhanced-calling-name-ecnam)

[13](#multi-device-mud)

[14](#multi-identity-mid)

[14](#parameter-values-timers)

[14](#service-configuration)

[14](#general-3)

[14](#data-semantics)

[14](#xml-schema)

[15](#annex-a-informative-signalling-flows)

[15](#a.1-scope-of-signalling-flows)

[15](#a.2-introduction)

[15](#a.3-fa-model-signalling-flow)

[15](#a.3.1-introduction)

[16](#a.3.2-fa-when-ue1-and-ue2-have-resources-available-and-ue3-does-not-have-required-resources-available)

[23](#annex-b-informative-example-of-filter-criteria)

[24](#annex-c-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Flexible Alerting (FA) 4.1 Introduction 4.2 Description 4.2.1 General
description 4.3 Operational requirements 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side 4.3.3 Requirements on
the terminating network side 4.4 Syntax requirements 4.5 Signalling
procedures 4.5.1 General 4.5.2 Activation/deactivation 4.5.2.1 General
4.5.2.2 Demand member activation of a subscriber\'s default FA group(s)
4.5.2.3 Demand member activation of a specified FA group 4.5.2.4 Demand
member deactivation of a subscriber\'s default FA group(s) 4.5.2.5
Demand member deactivation of a specified FA group 4.5.3
Registration/erasure 4.5.4 Interrogation 4.5.4.1 General 4.5.4.2
Interrogation using Ut interface 4.5.4.3 Interrogation using the
SIP-based user configuration 4.5.5 Invocation and operation 4.5.5.1
Actions at the AS serving the originating UE 4.5.5.2 Actions at the AS
serving the pilot identity 4.6 Interaction with other services 4.6.1
Communication session Hold (HOLD) 4.6.2 Terminating Identification
Presentation (TIP) 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) 4.6.5 Originating
Identification Restriction (OIR) 4.6.6 Conference (CONF) 4.6.7
Communication DIVersion services (CDIV) 4.6.7.1 Communication Forwarding
Unconditional (CFU) 4.6.7.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) 4.6.7.3
Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) 4.6.7.4 Communication
Forwarding Not Reachable (CFNRc) 4.6.7.5 Communication Deflection (CD)
4.6.7.6 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-In (CFNL) 4.6.8 Message
Waiting Indication (MWI) 4.6.9 Communication Barring (CB) 4.6.10
Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT) 4.6.11 Enhanced Calling Name
(eCNAM) 4.6.12 Multi-Device (MuD) 4.6.13 Multi-Identity (MiD) 4.7
Parameter values (timers) 4.8 Service configuration 4.8.1 General 4.8.2
Data semantics 4.8.3 XML schema Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
A.1 Scope of signalling flows A.2 Introduction A.3 FA model signalling
flow A.3.1 Introduction A.3.2 FA when UE\#1 and UE\#2 have resources
available and UE\#3 does not have required resources available Annex B
(informative): Example of filter criteria Annex C (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document provides the protocol details for the Flexible
Alerting supplementary service in the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem based on the requirements from 3GPP TS 22.173 \[2\].

Flexible Alerting (FA) causes a call to a pilot identity to branch the
call into several legs to alert several termination addresses (group
members) simultaneously. The first leg to be answered is connected to
the calling party. The other call legs are abandoned.

The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) and
Application Servers (AS) which are intended to support the FA
supplementary service.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS)
Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 24.238: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) based user
configuration; Stage 3\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration
Access Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Simulation
Services\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx
interfaces; Signalling flows and message contents\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 24.196: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Enhanced Calling Name\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

AS Application Server

CS Circuit Switched

CN Core Network

FA Flexible Alerting

IP Internet Protocol

IM IP Multimedia

MiD **Multi-iDentity**

MMTEL Multimedia Telephony

MuD **Multi-Device**

4 Flexible Alerting (FA)
========================

4.1 Introduction
----------------

Flexible Alerting (FA) causes a call to a Pilot Identity to branch the
call into several legs to alert several termination addresses (group
members) simultaneously. Additional calls may be delivered to the FA
Pilot Identity at any time. The first leg to be answered is connected to
the calling party. The other call legs are abandoned.

The members of an FA group are described by a list of termination
addresses.

4.2 Description
---------------

### 4.2.1 General description

FA may be used for either a single user or multiple users. The
difference between the two is in determining when the FA group is busy.
In the single user case, the group is considered to be busy when one of
the members is considered to be busy. In the multiple user case, the
group is considered to be busy when all of the accessible members are
considered to be busy. A member is considered to be busy when it cannot
accept the presentation of another call.

The FA pilot identity may have features to manage incoming calls (e.g.,
Incoming Communications Barring). These features should take precedence
over the corresponding features of individual members as described in
subclause 4.6.

If an FA pilot identity is an FA member Identity, the FA member loses
his or her individual incoming call features. In this case, the FA
member\'s incoming call features are superseded by the incoming call
features of the FA pilot identity.

If an FA pilot identity is not an FA member Identity, the features of
the FA pilot identity may be changed only through user or service
provider configuration.

FA does not affect the ability of an FA member to originate calls. FA
may affect the ability of an FA member to receive calls.

If an FA member has only a single identity that is the same as the FA
pilot identity, the FA member may not receive calls except through the
FA pilot identity.

If an FA member has an identity different than the FA pilot identity,
the FA member may receive calls as an individual as well as calls
through the FA pilot identity. Such an FA member may use revertive
calling (i.e., a call to itself) for other purposes, such as retrieval
of voice mail.

4.3 Operational requirements
----------------------------

### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal

The FA service may be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider. The establishment of the initial constituency (membership) of
the FA group, along with additions to or subtractions from the set of
group members, is performed by the service provider.

The FA service may be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons. Withdrawal of the FA service means dissolution
of the FA group and results in calls to the Pilot Identity being treated
as calls to a vacant identity. Withdrawal of the FA service is performed
by the service provider.

As determined by service provider provisioning, the FA group may have
the following subscription options, as summarized in table 4.3.1-1.

Table 4.3.1-1: FA group subscription options

+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Subscription option values | Values                                 |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Type                       | ‑ Single User. The FA group is         |
|                            | considered to be busy when any member  |
|                            | of the group is considered to be busy. |
|                            |                                        |
|                            | ‑ Multiple Users. The FA group is      |
|                            | considered to be busy when all         |
|                            | accessible members of the group are    |
|                            | considered to be busy.                 |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+

As determined by service provider provisioning, the FA member may have
the following subscription options, as summarized in table 4.3.1-2.

Table 4.3.1-2: FA member subscription options

+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Subscription option values | Values                                 |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Membership                 | ‑ Demand. An FA member is authorized   |
|                            | to activate or deactivate his or her   |
|                            | membership in the FA group(s).         |
|                            |                                        |
|                            | ‑ Permanent. An FA member is always a  |
|                            | member of his or her registered FA     |
|                            | group(s).                              |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+

If an FA group is of type \'demand activation\', any configured FA
member is able to, by means of user configuration, change their status
in the FA group from \'active\' to \'inactive\' or from \'inactive\' to
\'active\'. The FA member status options are summarized in
table 4.3.1-3.

Table 4.3.1-3: FA member status options

+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Subscription option values | Values                                 |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Status                     | ‑ Active. An FA member is eligible to  |
|                            | be alerted when a call is placed to    |
|                            | the Pilot Identity.                    |
|                            |                                        |
|                            | ‑ Inactive. An FA member is not        |
|                            | eligible to be alerted when a call is  |
|                            | placed to the Pilot Identity..         |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+

Available user configuration actions for FA are described in
subclause 4.5.2.

For user configuration of FA, the SIP-based user configuration
capability as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 \[4\] or the Ut interface as
described in 3GPP TS 24.623 \[6\] could be used. More detail is
described in subclause 4.8.

Other possibilities for provisioning could be used too, like web based
provisioning or pre-provisioning by the operator.

### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side

There are no requirements on the originating network side for FA. FA is
a terminating network side service.

### 4.3.3 Requirements on the terminating network side

The public user identity that represents the pilot identity of the FA
group has an always-registered presence on the IM CN subsystem. The
pilot identity is associated with a typical IM CN subsystem user service
profile.

4.4 Syntax requirements
-----------------------

There are no special SIP syntax requirements for the FA service. The FA
service is invoked when an IM CN subsystem session is terminated to the
pilot identity of an FA group.

4.5 Signalling procedures
-------------------------

### 4.5.1 General

For user configuration of the FA service by a member of the FA group,
either the Ut interface or the SIP-based user configuration capability
(as specified by 3GPP TS 24.238 \[4\]) should be used.

The enhancements to the XML schema for use over the Ut interface are
described in subclause 4.8.

NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, such as web-based
provisioning, are outside the scope of the present document.

### 4.5.2 Activation/deactivation

#### 4.5.2.1 General

The FA service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at
withdrawal.

For an FA group that is of type \'demand activation\', activation or
deactivation of membership is accomplished by means of user
configuration and may be achieved by using either:

\- the Ut interface using XCAP as enabling protocol as described in
3GPP TS 24.623 \[6\]; or

\- SIP based user configuration as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 \[3\];

NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, such as web-based
provisioning or pre-provisioning by the operator are outside the scope
of the present document, but are not precluded.

The enhancements to the XML schema for use over the Ut interface are
described in subclause 4.9.

#### 4.5.2.2 Demand member activation of a subscriber\'s default FA group(s)

For an FA group that is of type \'demand activation\', an FA member may
activate his or her membership in the subscriber\'s default FA group(s)
by specifying the FA membership activation feature code:

An example of the code is: \*FC

If the activation is accepted, the system shall indicate success with
feature confirmation treatment.

#### 4.5.2.3 Demand member activation of a specified FA group

For an FA group that is of type \'demand activation\', an FA member may
activate his or her membership in a particular FA group by specifying
the FA membership activation feature code and a specific FA pilot
identity:

An example of the code is: \*FC + FA pilot identity

If the activation is accepted, the system shall indicate success with
feature confirmation treatment.

#### 4.5.2.4 Demand member deactivation of a subscriber\'s default FA group(s)

For an FA group that is of type \'demand activation\', an FA member may
deactivate his or her membership in the subscriber\'s default FA
group(s) by specifying the FA membership deactivation feature code:

An example of the code is: \*FC0

If the deactivation is accepted, the system shall indicate success with
feature confirmation treatment.

#### 4.5.2.5 Demand member deactivation of a specified FA group

For an FA group that is of type \'demand activation\', an FA member may
deactivate his or her membership in a particular FA group by specifying
the FA membership deactivation feature code and a specific FA pilot
identity:

An example of the code is: \*FC0 + FA pilot identity

If the deactivation is accepted, the system shall indicate success with
feature confirmation treatment.

### 4.5.3 Registration/erasure

Individual members of the FA group may be added or deleted at any time
by the service provider.

### 4.5.4 Interrogation

#### 4.5.4.1 General

For interrogation, the mechanisms described in subclause 4.5.1 should be
used.

#### 4.5.4.2 Interrogation using Ut interface

The enhancements to the XML schema for use over the Ut interface are
described in subclause 4.9.

#### 4.5.4.3 Interrogation using the SIP-based user configuration

For an FA group that is of type \'demand activation\', an FA member may
interrogate his or her membership status in the subscriber\'s default FA
group(s) by specifying the FA membership interrogation feature code:

An example of the code is: \*FC1

For an FA group that is of type \'demand activation\', an FA member may
interrogate his or her membership status in a particular FA group by
specifying the FA membership interrogation feature code and a specific
FA pilot identity:

An example of the code is: \*FC1 + FA pilot identity

NOTE 1: The response to such interrogation is not specified for the FA
service. AS interactions with the MRF over the CR reference point or a
solution based on IVR can be used as a possible interrogation response.

### 4.5.5 Invocation and operation

#### 4.5.5.1 Actions at the AS serving the originating UE

There are no procedures at the originating AS relevant to the FA
service.

#### 4.5.5.2 Actions at the AS serving the pilot identity

Procedures specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 \[5\] for an AS acting as a
routing B2BUA shall apply, with the additions described in this
subclause.

The AS shall support procedures of notification about registration
status defined in subclause 5.7.1.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229 \[5\].

Upon receiving an incoming SIP INVITE request destined to the pilot
identity, based on operator policy the AS shall either:

1\) Alert the UEs of FA member identities in parallel by sending the SIP
INVITE request to all the member identities within the FA group; or

2\) alert the UEs of the FA member identities sequentially by sending
the SIP INVITE request to the Public User Identities of the FA group or
to their specifc registered UEs in sequence, either progressing through
the group based on failure to respond from the UE (the nature of the
failures used is based on nature of the implementation) or on a fixed
and locally configured timer.

NOTE 1: The order in which members of the FA group and their registered
UEs are alerted depends on application-specific criteria (including
static preferences, last used device, last registered device).

NOTE 2: Two mechanisms for the AS to select a specific registered UE for
a registered Public User Identity are, 1) the AS can set the Request-URI
of the INVITE request to the public GRUU of the selected UE, if
available, 2) insert in the INVITE request the Accept-Contact header
field containing a sip.instance media feature tag equal to the
instance-id associated to the selected UE and the \"require\" and the
\"explicit\" tags.

Upon receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response to the SIP INVITE request from a
member UE, the AS shall:

\- send SIP CANCEL request to cancel any outstanding SIP INVITE request
other member UEs that have not sent a final response; and

\- send the SIP 200 (OK) response for the SIP INVITE request to the
originating UE.

For a single-user FA group, if the AS receives SIP 486 (Busy Here)
response from any of the member UEs before receiving SIP 2xx responses,
the AS shall:

\- send SIP CANCEL request to cancel any outstanding SIP INVITE request
other member UEs that have not sent a final response; and

\- send the SIP 486 (Busy Here) response to the originating UE.

For a multiple-user FA group, if the AS receives SIP 486 (Busy Here)
responses from each (all) of the member UEs, the AS shall send a SIP 486
(Busy Here) response to the originating UE.

4.6 Interaction with other services
-----------------------------------

### 4.6.1 Communication session Hold (HOLD)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)

If the FA pilot identity did not apply TIR, the termination
identification is the FA pilot identity.

### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)

If the FA pilot identity has TIR activated, the termination
identification is not presented.

### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)

If the FA pilot identity has OIP activated, incoming calls to the FA
pilot identity apply OIP to the members of the FA group.

### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.6 Conference (CONF)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.7 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)

#### 4.6.7.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)

CFU is applicable to FA. If CFU is active for the Pilot Identity, the FA
AS shall perform the procedures related to CFU prior to executing the FA
service.

CFU of the FA Pilot Identity takes precedence over CFU of the individual
FA members. That is, if both the FA Pilot Identity and an FA member have
CFU active, CFU treatment is determined by the Pilot Identity\'s service
profile.

A forwarded communication can invoke the FA supplementary service.

#### 4.6.7.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB)

CFB of the FA Pilot Identity shall apply to calls to the Pilot Identity
when CFB is active and the FA group is considered to be busy. CFB takes
precedence over FA. If CFB is active for the Pilot Identity, the FA AS
shall perform the procedures related to CFB prior to executing the FA
service.

CFB of the FA Pilot Identity takes precedence over CFB of the individual
FA members. That is, if both the FA Pilot Identity and an FA member have
CFB active, CFB treatment is determined by the Pilot Identity\'s service
profile.

If while a call to the Pilot Identity remains in progress, and the FA
group has not yet been considered busy, yet an individual call leg (i.e.
FA member) is reported \'busy\' and its associated service profile does
have CFB active, the CFB service should be invoked on behalf of that
member.

A forwarded communication can invoke the FA supplementary service.

#### 4.6.7.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR)

CFNR of the FA Pilot Identity shall apply to calls to the Pilot Identity
when CFNR is active and the call is not or cannot be answered for reason
that there is no reply from any of the FA members. CFNR takes precedence
over FA. If CFNR is active for the Pilot Identity, the FA AS shall
perform the procedures related to CFNR prior to executing the FA
service.

CFNR of the FA Pilot Identity takes precedence over CFNR of the
individual FA members. That is, if both the FA Pilot Identity and an FA
member have CFNR active, CFNR treatment is determined by the Pilot
Identity\'s service profile.

If while a call to the Pilot Identity remains in progress, and the
criteria to invoke the CFNR service is met with respect to an individual
call leg (i.e. FA member), the CFNR service should be invoked on behalf
of that member.

If FA group is of type \"Multiple Users\", and not all users return a
SIP 486 (Busy Here) response, and the other FA members within the FA
group do not reply or are not logged in, then CFNR of the FA Pilot
Identity shall apply.

A forwarded communication can invoke the FA supplementary service.

#### 4.6.7.4 Communication Forwarding Not Reachable (CFNRc)

CFNRc of the FA Pilot Identity shall apply to calls to the Pilot
Identity when CFNRc is active and the call is not or cannot be answered
for reason that none of the FA members is reachable. CFNRc takes
precedence over FA. If CFNRc is active for the Pilot Identity, the FA AS
shall perform the procedures related to CFNRc prior to executing the FA
service.

CFNRc of the FA Pilot Identity takes precedence over CFNRc of the
individual FA members. That is, if both the FA Pilot Identity and an FA
member have CFNRc active, CFNRc treatment is determined by the Pilot
Identity\'s service profile.

If while a call to the Pilot Identity remains in progress, and the
criteria to invoke the CFNRc service is met with respect to an
individual call leg (i.e. FA member), the CFNRc service should be
invoked on behalf of that member.

A forwarded communication can invoke the FA supplementary service.

#### 4.6.7.5 Communication Deflection (CD)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service. CD does not apply to the Pilot Identity.

A forwarded communication can invoke the FA supplementary service.

#### 4.6.7.6 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-In (CFNL)

CFNL of the FA Pilot Identity shall apply to calls to the Pilot Identity
when CFNL is active and the call is not or cannot be answered for reason
that none of the FA members is logged-in. CFNL takes precedence over FA.
If CFNL is active for the Pilot Identity, the FA AS shall perform the
procedures related to CFNL prior to executing the FA service.

CFNL of the FA Pilot Identity takes precedence over CFNL of the
individual FA members. That is, if both the FA Pilot Identity and an FA
member have CFNL active, CFNL treatment is determined by the Pilot
Identity\'s service profile.

If while a call to the Pilot Identity remains in progress, and the
criteria to invoke the CFNL service is met with respect to an individual
call leg (i.e. FA member), the CFNL service should be invoked on behalf
of that member.

A forwarded communication can invoke the FA supplementary service.

### 4.6.8 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.9 Communication Barring (CB)

Incoming Communications Barring (ICB) and Anonymous Call Rejection (ACR)
of the FA pilot identity take precedence over FA. That is, calls to the
FA pilot identity with ICB/ACR active are checked for the ICB/ACR first.
If the call is not allowed by ICB/ACR, the call is refused. If the call
is accepted by ICB/ACR, the call is given FA treatment.

ICB/ACR may apply for individual FA members for calls to the FA pilot
identity. FA calls destined to a particular FA member may, after
screening against the FA pilot identity, be screened against a FA
member\'s screening list to prevent the unintended delivery of a call to
a member. If the second screening fails, the member should be considered
inaccessible and the call should be attempted to be delivered to another
member. The screening of all the members pertaining to an FA group shall
be done so that all members are alerted at nearly the same time.

### 4.6.10 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.11 Enhanced Calling Name (eCNAM)

If the FA Pilot has eCNAM activated, incoming calls to the FA Pilot
shall apply eCNAM to the members of the FA group.

The eCNAM metadata as specified in 3GPP TS 24.196 \[8\] that is obtained
from analytics shall be based on the FA Pilot and not the individual
members\' identity.

NOTE: Analytics can sometimes include/process information about the
called party. Therefore, it is noted that in an FA group, the only
called party identity to be used for analytics is that of the Pilot and
not of other members of the FA.

### 4.6.12 Multi-Device (MuD)

No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.13 Multi-Identity (MiD)

Terminating MiD service is competing with the FA.

4.7 Parameter values (timers)
-----------------------------

No timers for FA service are defined.

4.8 Service configuration
-------------------------

### 4.8.1 General

Flexible Alerting documents are sub‑trees of the *simservs* XML document
specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 \[6\]. As such, Originating Identity
documents use the XCAP application usage in 3GPP TS 24.623 \[6\].

**Data semantics:** The semantics of the Flexible Alerting XML
configuration document is specified in subclause 4.8.2.

**XML schema:** Implementations in compliance with the present document
shall implement the XML schema that minimally includes the XML Schema
defined in subclause 4.8.3 and the *simservs* XML schema specified in
subclause 6.3 of 3GPP TS 24.623 \[6\].

An instance of an Flexible Alerting document is shown:

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<simservs xmlns=\"http://uri.etsi.org/ngn/params/xml/simservs/xcap\"
xmlns:xsi=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance\"\>

\<flexible-alerting-default active=\"true\"/\>

\<flexible-alerting-specific active=\"true\"\>

\<identity\>sip:pilot\_identity\@home1.net\</identity\>

\</flexible-alerting-specific\>

\</simservs\>

### 4.8.2 Data semantics

For an FA group that is of type \'demand activation\':

\- an FA member man activate or deactivate their membership from their
default FA groups using the active attribute of the
\<flexible-alerting-default\> service element.

\- an FA member may activate or deactivate their membership from a
particular FA group identified by its Pilot Identity using the active
attribute of the \<identity\> service element. The Pilot Identity of the
FA group is configured in the \<identity\> element as a URI.

\- an FA member may deactivate all their Specific FA groups by setting
the active attribute of the \<flexible-alerting-specific\> service
element to \"false\".

### 4.8.3 XML schema

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<xs:schema
targetNamespace=\"<http://uri.etsi.org/ngn/params/xml/simservs/xcap>\"
xmlns:ss=\"<http://uri.etsi.org/ngn/params/xml/simservs/xcap>\"
xmlns:xs=\"<http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema>\"
elementFormDefault=\"qualified\" attributeFormDefault=\"unqualified\"\>

\<xs:include schemaLocation=\"XCAP.xsd\"/\>

\<xs:element name=\"flexible-alerting-default\" type=\"ss:simservType\"
substitutionGroup=\"ss:absService\"\>

\<xs:annotation\>

\<xs:documentation\>Flexible Alerting Default Groups Membership

\</xs:documentation\>

\</xs:annotation\>

\</xs:element\>

\<xs:element name=\"flexible-alerting-specific\"
substitutionGroup=\"ss:absService\"\>

\<xs:annotation\>

\<xs:documentation\>Flexible Alerting Specific Groups Membership

\</xs:documentation\>

\</xs:annotation\>

\<xs:complexType\>

\<xs:complexContent\>

\<xs:extension base=\"ss:simservType\"\>

\<xs:sequence\>

\<xs:element name=\"identity\" minOccurs=\"0\" maxOccurs=\"unbounded\"\>

\<xs:complexType\>

\<xs:simpleContent\>

\<xs:extension base=\"xs:anyURI\"\>

\<xs:attribute name=\"active\" type=\"xs:boolean\" use=\"optional\"
default=\"true\"/\>

\</xs:extension\>

\</xs:simpleContent\>

\</xs:complexType\>

\</xs:element\>

\<xs:any namespace=\"\#\#other\" minOccurs=\"0\" maxOccurs=\"unbounded\"
processContents=\"lax\"/\>

\</xs:sequence\>

\<xs:anyAttribute namespace=\"\#\#other\"/\>

\</xs:extension\>

\</xs:complexContent\>

\</xs:complexType\>

\</xs:element\>

\</xs:schema\>

######## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows

A.1 Scope of signalling flows
=============================

This annex gives examples of signalling flows for the FA service within
the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem based on the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP).

A.2 Introduction
================

A.3 FA model signalling flow
============================

A.3.1 Introduction
------------------

The following flow shows the establishment of a session between UE\#1
and UE\#2. The following flow is included:

\- subclause A.3.2 shows FA, when UE\#1 and UE\#2 have resources
available and UE\#3 does not have required resources available.

A.3.2 FA when UE\#1 and UE\#2 have resources available and UE\#3 does not have required resources available
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Figure A.3.2-1 and figure A.3.2-2 show the FA service invoked when UE\#1
sends an INVITE request to the Pilot Identity. UE\#2 and UE\#3 have
registered public user identities that are included in the FA group. In
this example, UE\#1 and UE\#2 have resources available prior to session
initiation, whereas UE\#3 does not have the required resources available
before it receives the initial INVITE request. This example assumes that
all the UEs involved in this session support the IMS Multimedia
Telephony Communication Service.

Figure A.3.2-1: FA, UE\#3 does not have required resources available

Figure A.3.2-2: FA, UE\#3 does not have required resources available

> **1 INVITE request (UE\#1 to S-CSCF) see example in table A.3.2-1**

UE\#1 sends a SIP INVITE request to the intermediate IM CN subsystem.

Table A.3.2-1: INVITE request (UE\#1 to FA-AS)

> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> \[5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd\]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \<sip:pcscf1.visited1.net:7531;lr;comp=sigcomp\>,
> \<sip:scscf1.home1.net;lr\>
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \<sip:user1\_public1\@home1.net\>
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: IEEE-802.11a
>
> P-Preferred-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
>
> Accept-Contact:
> \*;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \<sip:user1\_public1\@home1.net\>;tag=171828
>
> To: \<tel:+1-212-555-2222\>
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Require: sec-agree
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, gruu, 199
>
> Proxy-Require: sec-agree
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \<sip:user1\_public1\@home1.net;gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6\>;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE
>
> Accept:application/sdp,.application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 6666::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 6666::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
>
> a=pcfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
>
> a=pcfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event

**Request-URI:** The request URI is set to the Pilot Identity of the FA
group.

**Supported:** The UE indicates support for preconditions, reliable
provisional responses, gruu and the 199 provisional response.

**SDP:** The SDP offer (SDP\_O) contains a set of codecs supported by
UE\#1 and desired by the calling user for this session. The local
preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.

**2 INVITE request (S-CSCF to FA-AS)**

The S-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE request to the FA-AS.

**3-4 INVITE request (FA-AS to UE\#3)**

The Pilot Identity included in the Request-URI in the received INVITE
request is mapped to the public user identities of the individual FA
members in the FA group. The FA-AS forwards the INVITE request to the
individual FA members in the FA group. The FA-AS forwards the INVITE
request to UE\#3, with the Request-URI set the public user identity
which is an identity included in the FA group and registered from UE\#3.

> **5-6 180 (Ringing) provisional response (UE\#3 to FA-AS) see example
> in table A.3.2-2**

The called party is alerted. UE\#3 sends a reliable SIP 180 (Ringing)
provisional response for the INVITE request to the FA-AS.

Table A.3.4-2: 180 (Ringing) response (UE\#3 to FA-AS)

> SIP/2.0 180 Ringing
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf2.visited2.net:5088;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1,
> SIP/2.0/UDP scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> faas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764z87.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> icscf2\_s.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK871y12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> \[5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd\]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Record-Route: \<sip:pcscf2.visited2.net:5088;lr;comp=sigcomp\>,
> \<sip:scscf2.home2.net;lr\>, \<sip:scscf1.home1.net;lr\>,
> \<sip:pcscf1.visited1.net;lr\>
>
> From:
>
> To: \<tel:+1-212-555-1001\>;tag=6322
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE
>
> RSeq: 9021
>
> Contact:
> \<sip:user3\_public1\@visited1.net;gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91er2d2\>;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVPF 98
>
> a=acfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVPF 97 96
>
> a=acfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes

**SDP:** The SDP answer (SDP\_A1) contains a set of codecs to be used
for the session. The local preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.

> **7-8 PRACK request (FA-AS to UE\#3)**

FA-AS sends a SIP PRACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 180
(Ringing) provisional response, to UE\#\#3.

> **9-10 200 (OK) response to PRACK (UE\#3 to FA-AS)**

UE\#3 sends a SIP 200 (OK) response for the SIP PRACK request to FA-AS.

> **11-12 180 (Ringing) provisional response (FA-AS to UE\#1)**

The FA-AS sends a reliable SIP 180 (Ringing) provisional response to
UE\#1.

> An early dialog (D2) is established between UE\#1 and the FA-AS.
>
> **13-14 PRACK request (UE\#1 to FA-AS)**

UE\#1 sends a SIP PRACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 180
(Ringing) provisional response, to the FA-AS.

> **15-16 200 (OK) response to PRACK (FA-AS to UE\#1)**

The FA-AS sends a SIP 200 (OK) response for the SIP PRACK request to
UE\#1.

**17-18 INVITE request (FA-AS to UE\#2)**

The Pilot Identity included in the Request-URI in the received INVITE
request is mapped to the public user identities of the individual FA
members in the FA group. The FA-AS forwards the INVITE request to the
individual FA members in the FA group. In parallel to forwarding the
request to UE \#3 (see step 3), the FA-AS forwards the request to UE\#2,
with the Request-URI set the public user identity which is an identity
included in the FA group and registered from UE\#2.

> **19-20 180 (Ringing) provisional response (UE\#2 to FA-AS) see
> example in table A.3.2-2**

The called party is alerted. UE\#2 sends a reliable SIP 180 (Ringing)
provisional response for the INVITE request to the FA-AS.

Table A.3.4-3: 180 (Ringing) response (UE\#2 to FA-AS)

> SIP/2.0 180 Ringing
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf2.visited2.net:5088;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1,
> SIP/2.0/UDP scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> faas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764z87.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> icscf2\_s.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK871y12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> \[5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd\]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Record-Route: \<sip:pcscf2.visited2.net:5088;lr;comp=sigcomp\>,
> \<sip:scscf2.home2.net;lr\>, \<sip:scscf1.home1.net;lr\>,
> \<sip:pcscf1.visited1.net;lr\>
>
> From:
>
> To: \<tel:+1-212-555-1002\>;tag=4114
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE
>
> RSeq: 7187
>
> Contact:
> \<sip:user2\_public1\@visited1.net;gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91ewxyz\>;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:ccc
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:ccc
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVPF 98
>
> a=acfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVPF 97 96
>
> a=acfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes

**SDP:** The SDP answer (SDP\_A2) contains a set of codecs to be used
for the session. The local preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.

> **21-22 PRACK request (FA-AS to UE\#2)**

FA-AS sends a SIP PRACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 180
(Ringing) provisional response, to UE\#2.

> **23-24 200 (OK) response to PRACK (UE\#2 to FA-AS)**

UE\#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) response for the SIP PRACK request to FA-AS.

> **25-26 200 (OK) response to INVITE (UE\#2 to FA-AS)**

The called party answers the call. UE\#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) final
response for the SIP INVITE request to the FA-AS.

> **27-28 CANCEL request (FA-AS to UE\#3)**

FA-AS sends a SIP CANCEL request, to cancel early dialog D1, to UE\#3.

> **29-30 200 (OK) response to CANCEL (UE\#3 to FA-AS)**

UE\#3 sends a SIP 200 (OK) response for the SIP PRACK request to FA-AS.

> **31-32 487 (Request Terminated) (UE\#3 to FA-AS)**

UE\#3 sends a SIP 487 (Request Terminated), to cancel early dialog D1,
to FA-AS.

> **33-34 ACK request to CANCEL (FA-AS to FA-UE\#3)**
>
> FA-AS sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the 200 (OK) to
> CANCEL, to UE\#3.
>
> **35-36 200 (OK) response to INVITE (FA-AS to UE\#1)**

In parallel to sending the CANCEL request to UE\#3 (see step 27), the
FA-AS sends a SIP 200 (OK) response to UE\#1. The response contains SDP
answer (SDP\_A2).

> **37-38** **ACK request (UE\#1 to FA-AS)**

UE\#1 sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 200 (OK) final
response, to FA-AS.

> **39-40** **ACK request (FA-AS to UE\#2)**

FA-AS sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 200 (OK) final
response, to UE\#2.

######## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria

This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.

When the initial request matches the conditions of the next unexecuted
IFC rule for the served user which points to the FA service and the, the
communication is forwarded to the AS.

An example of an Initial Filter Criteria (IFC) Trigger Point
configurations under the assumption that the FA service is a standalone
service that can be invoked by a very specific triggerpoint active at
the destination S-CSCF:

\- (Method=\"INVITE\" AND Header=\"Request-URI\").

NOTE 1: The coding of the Initial Filter Criteria is described in
3GPP TS 29.228 \[7\].

######## Annex C (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | **TSG | **TSG | *     | **    | **Su  | **    | **    |
| ate** |  \#** | D     | *CR** | Rev** | bject | Old** | New** |
|       |       | oc.** |       |       | /Comm |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | R     | 0.0.0 | 0.0.1 |
| 08-01 |       |       |       |       | appor |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | teurs |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | input |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | fram  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ework |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | doc   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ument |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Impl  | 0.0.1 | 0.1.0 |
| 08-04 |       |       |       |       | ement |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CRs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\#52 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | fol   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | lows: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1362, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1363, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1364, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81365 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Mis   | 0.1.0 | 0.1.1 |
| 08-04 |       |       |       |       | cella |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | neous |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | edit  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | I     |       | 0.2.0 |
| 08-05 |       |       |       |       | mplem |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ented |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2034, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 82035 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | I     |       | 0.3.0 |
| 08-07 |       |       |       |       | mplem |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ented |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2448, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 82662 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\#54 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | I     |       | 0.4.0 |
| 08-08 |       |       |       |       | mplem |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ented |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2959, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 3207, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 3371, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 83372 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\#55 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Ve    | 0.4.0 | 1.0.0 |
| 08-09 |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | esent |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TSG   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | T\#41 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | I     |       | 1.1.0 |
| 08-11 |       |       |       |       | mplem |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ented |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | foll  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | owing |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CRs   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | after |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT1   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | \#56: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 5095, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 5096, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 5097, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 5273, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 5274, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-08 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 5276, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 85457 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Ve    | 1.1.0 | 2.0.0 |
| 08-11 |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | esent |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TSG   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | T\#42 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roval |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-42 |       |       |       | Ve    | 2.0.0 | 8.0.0 |
| 08-12 |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 8.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | after |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roval |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | T\#42 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-43 | CP-0  | 0001  |       | Corre | 8.0.0 | 8.1.0 |
| 09-03 |       | 90121 |       |       | ction |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | URN-  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | value |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Se    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | I     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | denti |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | fiers |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-43 | CP-0  | 0002  | 1     | Se    | 8.0.0 | 8.1.0 |
| 09-03 |       | 90143 |       |       | rvice |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | XML   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | chema |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | IMS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Fle   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | xible |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Ale   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-43 | CP-0  | 0003  |       | Flow  | 8.0.0 | 8.1.0 |
| 09-03 |       | 90143 |       |       | up    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | dates |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-46 | CP-0  | 0004  | 1     | Corre | 8.1.0 | 8.2.0 |
| 09-12 |       | 90910 |       |       | ction |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of FA |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | XML   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | chema |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | -     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | activ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-46 | CP-0  | 0005  | 1     | Re    | 8.1.0 | 8.2.0 |
| 09-12 |       | 90910 |       |       | moval |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | edit  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | or\'s |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | notes |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 4.239 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-46 |       |       |       | Up    | 8.2.0 | 9.0.0 |
| 09-12 |       |       |       |       | grade |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Rel-9 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-51 |       |       |       | Up    | 9.0.0 | 1     |
| 11-03 |       |       |       |       | grade |       | 0.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | el-10 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-57 |       |       |       | Up    | 1     | 1     |
| 12-09 |       |       |       |       | grade | 0.0.0 | 1.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | el-11 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-60 | CP-1  | 0006  | 3     | Fle   | 1     | 1     |
| 13-06 |       | 30265 |       |       | xible | 1.0.0 | 2.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | Aler  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ting- |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Seque |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ntial |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | mode  |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-70 |       |       |       | Up    | 1     | 1     |
| 15-12 |       |       |       |       | grade | 2.0.0 | 3.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | el-13 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                        
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                           **New version**
  2017-03              CT75                                                   Upgrade to Rel-14                                                             14.0.0
  2017-12              CT-78         CP-173071   0008     3         B         Flexible Alerting (FA) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem   15.0.0
  2019-12              CT-86         CP-193111   0009     1         B         Adding interactions with \"Multi-Device\" and \"Multi-Identity\" services     16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
