![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#mo-for-bcp-of-mmtel-communication-service)

[7](#mo-configuration-parameters)

[7](#general)

[7](#node-x)

[8](#xname)

[8](#xtimer_requesttimeout)

[8](#xext)

[8](#x3gpp_ps_data_off)

[8](#x3gpp_ps_data_offmmtel_voice_exempt)

[9](#a-x3gpp_ps_data_offmmtel_voice_roaming_exempt)

[9](#x3gpp_ps_data_offmmtel_video_exempt)

[9](#a-x3gpp_ps_data_offmmtel_video_roaming_exempt)

[10](#annex-a-informative-ddf-of-mo-for-bcp-of-mmtel-communication-service)

[13](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations
4 MO for BCP of MMTEL communication service 5 MO configuration
parameters 5.1 General 5.2 Node: /*\<X\>* 5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name 5.4
/*\<X\>*/Timer\_RequestTimeout 5.5 /*\<X\>*/Ext/ 5.6
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off 5.7
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/MMTEL\_voice\_exempt 5.7a
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/MMTEL\_voice\_roaming\_exempt 5.8
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/MMTEL\_video\_exempt 5.8a
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/MMTEL\_video\_roaming\_exempt Annex A
(informative): DDF of MO for BCP of MMTEL communication service Annex B
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document defines the management object (MO) for Basic
Communication Part (BCP) of IMS Multimedia Telephony (MMTEL)
communication service.

The MO for BCP of MMTEL communication service is compatible with OMA
device management protocol specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and
is defined using the OMA DM device description framework as described in
the enabler release definition OMA-ERELD\_DM-V1\_2 \[2\].

The MO for BCP of MMTEL communication service consists of relevant
configuration parameter that can be managed for a UE supporting the
timer RequestTimeout specified in 3GPP TS 24.173 \[3\].

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document in the same Release as the present document.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1\_2-20070209-A: \"Enabler Release Definition for
OMA Device Management, Version 1.2\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 24.173: \" IMS multimedia telephony communication service
and supplementary services\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 22.011 \[r22011\] apply:

**3GPP PS data off**

**3GPP PS data off exempt service**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 24.173 \[3\] apply:

**MMTEL voice**

**MMTEL video**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 23.122 \[5\] apply:

**Equivalent Home PLMN (EHPLMN)**

**Home PLMN (HPLMN)**

**Visited PLMN (VPLMN)**

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

DDF Device Description Framework

DM Device Management

MO Management Object

OMA Open Mobile Alliance

BCP Basic Communication Part

UE User Equipment

4 MO for BCP of MMTEL communication service
===========================================

The MO for BCP of MMTEL communication service is used to manage settings
of the UE, which supports a RequestTimeout timer. The timer
RequestTimeout is configurable as specified in 3GPP TS 24.173 \[3\].

The MO identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-bcp:1.0.

Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.

Figure 4-1: MO for BCP of MMTEL communication service

5 MO configuration parameters
=============================

5.1 General
-----------

This clause describes the configuration parameters for the MO for BCP of
MMTEL communication service.

5.2 Node: /*\<X\>*
------------------

This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more accounts for a
fixed node.

\- Occurrence: OneOrMore

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

The interior node is mandatory for a UE supporting the UE role specified
in 3GPP TS 24.173 \[3\].

NOTE: One node is normally used. More nodes are only used in case the
terminal supports multiple UICCs.

Child nodes of this interior node which are not defined in this version
of the present document are ignored.

5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name
-----------------

This leaf is a name for the settings for BCP of MMTEL communication
service.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: chr

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: \<User displayable name\>

5.4 /*\<X\>*/Timer\_RequestTimeout
----------------------------------

The Timer\_RequestTimeout leaf defines the time between sending of an
initial INVITE request and receipt of any SIP response.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: int

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: \<The time for INVITE request timeout\>

The Timer\_RequestTimeout leaf is the time between sending from the UE
the initial INVITE request and the receptions of any SIP responce. The
timer value shall be given in seconds. The configurable value is between
5 and 15 seconds referring to 3GPP TS 24.173 \[3\]. The
Timer\_RequestTimeout is a 16 bits unsigned integer.

5.5 /*\<X\>*/Ext/
-----------------

The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information
about the 3GPP-IMS MO is being placed (vendor meaning application
vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the vendor extension is identified
by vendor specific name under the ext node. The tree structure under the
vendor identified is not defined and can therefore include one or more
un-standardized sub-trees.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: N/A

5.6 /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off
--------------------------------

The interior node contains configuration parameters for 3GPP PS data
off.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

5.7 /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/MMTEL\_voice\_exempt
-----------------------------------------------------

The leaf indicates whether the MMTEL voice is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 - Indicates that the MMTEL voice is not a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.

1 - Indicates that the MMTEL voice is a 3GPP PS data off exempt service.

NOTE: This MO is used when the UE is in the home PLMN or the EHPLMN, or
the UE is in the VPLMN and the MMTEL\_voice\_roaming\_exempt node is not
configured.

5.7a /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/MMTEL\_voice\_roaming\_exempt
---------------------------------------------------------------

The leaf indicates whether the MMTEL voice is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service when the UE is in the VPLMN.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 - Indicates that the MMTEL voice is not a 3GPP PS data off roaming
exempt service.

1 - Indicates that the MMTEL voice is a 3GPP PS data off roaming exempt
service.

5.8 /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/MMTEL\_video\_exempt
-----------------------------------------------------

The leaf indicates whether the MMTEL video is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 - Indicates that the MMTEL video is not a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.

1 - Indicates that the MMTEL video is a 3GPP PS data off exempt service.

NOTE: This MO is used when the UE is in the home PLMN or the EHPLMN, or
the MMTEL\_video\_roaming\_exempt node is not configured when the UE is
in the VPLMN.

5.8a /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/MMTEL\_video\_roaming\_exempt
---------------------------------------------------------------

The leaf indicates whether the MMTEL video is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service when the UE is in the VPLMN.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 - Indicates that the MMTEL video is not a 3GPP PS data off roaming
exempt service.

1 - Indicates that the MMTEL video is a 3GPP PS data off roaming exempt
service.

######## Annex A (informative): DDF of MO for BCP of MMTEL communication service

This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own
DDF for the complete device. This DDF can include more features than
this minimal standardized version.

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<!DOCTYPE MgmtTree PUBLIC \"-//OMA//DTD-DM-DDF 1.2//EN\"

\"http://www.openmobilealliance.org/tech/DTD/DM\_DDF-V1\_2.dtd\"\>

\<MgmtTree\>

\<VerDTD\>1.2\</VerDTD\>

\<Man\>\--The device manufacturer\--\</Man\>

\<Mod\>\--The device model\--\</Mod\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName/\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<Description\>Configuration parameters for BCP of MMTEL communication
service\</Description\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<OneOrMore/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Permanent/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>The Management Object (MO) for Basic Communication Part (BCP)
of IMS Multimedia Telephony(MMTEL) communication service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName\>urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-bcp:1.0\</DDFName\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>Name\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<chr/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>The name for BCP of MMTEL communication service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>Timer\_RequestTimeout\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<int/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Permanent/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Timer RequestTimeout.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>3GPP\_PS\_data\_off\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Replace/\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Configuration parameters for 3GPP PS data off.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>MMTEL\_voice\_exempt\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Whether the MMTEL voice is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>MMTEL\_voice\_roaming\_exempt\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Whether the MMTEL voice is a 3GPP PS data off roaming exempt
service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>MMTEL\_video\_exempt\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Whether the MMTEL video is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>MMTEL\_video\_roaming\_exempt\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Whether the MMTEL video is a 3GPP PS data off roaming exempt
service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>Ext\</NodeName\>

\<!\-- The Extension node starts here. \--\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>A collection of all Extension objects.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\</MgmtTree\>

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                          **New version**
  2016-11                                                                     Description of the new MO.                                                                                   0.1.0
  2016-11              CT-74         CP-160780                                Version 1.0.0 created for presentation for information to CT plenary.                                        1.0.0
  2016-12              CT-74         CP-160830                                Version 1.0.1 (with TS-number added) created for presentation for information to CT plenary.                 1.0.1
  2017-01              CT1-101BIS    C1-170328                                Version 1.1.0 created for adding MMTEL voice and MMTEL video configuration for PS data off                   1.1.0
  2017-02              CT1-102       C1-170602                                Version 1.2.0 created to remove editor\'s note for MO identifier (C1-170602) and to remove additional line   1.2.0
  2017-02              CT-75         CP-170159                                Version 2.0.0 created for presentation for approval to CT plenary.                                           2.0.0
  2017-03              CT-75                                                  Version 14.0.0 created after approval at CT75                                                                14.0.0
  2018-06              CT-80         CP-181074   0001     2         B         MMTEL voice and MMTEL video configuration for 3GPP PS Data Off2                                              15.0.0
  2018-12              CT-82         CP-183077   0002               F         Addition of the object identifier in the DDF of the 3GPP Management Object                                   16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
