![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#ics-managed-object)

[6](#management-object-parameters)

[6](#general)

[6](#node-x)

[6](#xname)

[7](#xics_capabilities_enabled)

[7](#xi1_capabilities_enabled)

[7](#xext)

[8](#annex-a-informative-management-object-ddf)

[10](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 ICS
Managed Object 5 Management Object parameters 5.1 General 5.2 Node:
*\<X\>* 5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name 5.4 /*\<X\>*/ICS\_Capabilities\_Enabled 5.5
/*\<X\>*/I1\_Capabilities\_Enabled 5.6 /*\<X\>*/Ext/ Annex A
(informative): Management Object DDF Annex B (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

This document defines the IMS Centralised Services Management Object
(MO). The management object is compatible with OMA Device Management
protocol specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using
the OMA DM Device Description Framework as described in the Enabler
Release Definition OMA-ERELD \_DM-V1\_2 \[4\].

The IMS Centralised Services Management Object consists of relevant
parameters that can be managed for ICS.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 24.292: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem;
Centralized Services (ICS); Stage 3\".

\[4\] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1\_2: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 23.292: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Centralized
Services; Stage 2\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] apply.

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 23.003 \[2\] apply:

**Home Network Domain Name**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 23.292 \[5\] apply:

**ICS UE**

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

DM Device Management

ICS IMS Centralised Services

IMS IP Multimedia core network Subsystem

IP Internet Protocol

MO Management Object

OMA Open Mobile Alliance

UE User Equipment

4 ICS Managed Object
====================

The ICS Management Object (MO) is used to configure ICS UE behaviour for
IMS Centralised Services.

The Management Object Identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-ICS:1.0.

Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.

The OMA DM Access Control List (ACL) property mechanism (see
OMA-ERELD-DM-V1\_2 \[4\]) may be used to grant or deny access rights to
OMA DM servers in order to modify nodes and leaf objects of the ICS MO.

The following nodes and leaf objects are possible under the ICS node as
described in figure 4-1:

Figure 4-1: The ICS Management Object

5 Management Object parameters
==============================

5.1 General
-----------

This clause describes the parameters for the IMS Centralised Services
Management Object (MO).

5.2 Node: *\<X\>*
-----------------

This interior node acts as a placeholder for the IMS Centralised
Services Management Object (MO).

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: N/A

5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name
-----------------

The Name leaf is a name for the IMS Centralised Services settings.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: chr

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: \<User displayable name\>

5.4 /*\<X\>*/ICS\_Capabilities\_Enabled
---------------------------------------

The ICS\_Capabilities\_Enabled leaf indicates an operator\'s preference
to enable or disable IMS Centralised Services.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 -- Indicates that IMS Centralised Services capabilities over Gm are
enabled.

1 -- Indicates that IMS Centralised Services capabilities over Gm are
disabled.

The default value is that IMS Centralised Services over Gm are disabled
when the IMS Centralised Services Management Object is not provisioned.
Use of the ICS\_Capabilities\_Enabled leaf is specified in
3GPP TS 24.292 \[3\].

5.5 /*\<X\>*/I1\_Capabilities\_Enabled
--------------------------------------

The I1\_Capabilities\_Enabled leaf indicates an operator\'s preference
to enable or disable support for the I1 protocol.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: int

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 -- Indicates that IMS Centralised Services capabilities over I1 are
disabled.

1 -- Indicates that IMS Centralised Services capabilities over I1 are
enabled if concurrent use of CS RAT and PS RAT is not supported.

The default value is that IMS Centralised Services over I1 are disabled
when the IMS Centralised Services Management Object is not provisioned.
Use of the I1\_Capabilities\_Enabled leaf is specified in
3GPP TS 24.292 \[3\].

5.6 /*\<X\>*/Ext/
-----------------

The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information
about the IMS Centralised Services MO is being placed (vendor meaning
application vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the vendor extension is
identified by vendor specific name under the ext node. The tree
structure under the vendor identified is not defined and can therefore
include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

######## Annex A (informative): Management Object DDF

This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own
DDF for the complete device. This DDF can include more features than
this minimal standardized version.

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<!DOCTYPE MgmtTree PUBLIC \"-//OMA//DTD-DM-DDF 1.2//EN\"

\"http://www.openmobilealliance.org/tech/DTD/dm\_ddf-v1\_2.dtd\"\>

\<MgmtTree\>

\<VerDTD\>1.2\</VerDTD\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>IMS Centralised Services\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<Description\> IMS Centralised Services settings\</Description\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<OneOrMore/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<DFTitle\>The IMS Centralised Services Management Object.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

**\<Node\>**

**\<NodeName\>Name\</NodeName\>**

**\<DFProperties\>**

**\<AccessType\>**

**\<Get/\>**

**\</AccessType\>**

**\<DFFormat\>**

**\<chr/\>**

**\</DFFormat\>**

**\<Occurrence\>**

**\<ZeroOrOne/\>**

**\</Occurrence\>**

**\<DFTitle\>User displayable name for the node\</DFTitle\>**

**\<DFType\>**

**\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>**

**\</DFType\>**

**\</DFProperties\>**

**\</Node\>**

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>ICS\_Capabilities\_Enabled\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<DFTitle\>This leaf specifies an operator\'s preference to enable or
disable IMS Centralised Services capabilities.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>I1\_Capabilities\_Enabled\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<int/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<DFTitle\>This leaf specifies an operator\'s preference to enable or
disable I1 capabilities.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

**\<Node\>**

**\<NodeName\>Ext\</NodeName\>**

**\<!\-- The Extension node starts here. \--\>**

**\<DFProperties\>**

**\<AccessType\>**

**\<Get/\>**

**\<Replace/\>**

**\</AccessType\>**

**\<DFFormat\>**

**\<node/\>**

**\</DFFormat\>**

**\<Occurrence\>**

**\<ZeroOrOne/\>**

**\</Occurrence\>**

**\<DFTitle\>A collection of all Extension objects.\</DFTitle\>**

**\<DFType\>**

**\<DDFName/\>**

**\</DFType\>**

**\</DFProperties\>**

**\</Node\>**

\</Node\>

\</MgmtTree\>

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                 **Old**   **New**
  2009-11                                                             Version 0.0.1: Preliminary proposal                                                           0.0.1
  2009-11                                                             Version 0.0.2: Revision based on comments in CT1\#62                                          0.0.2
  2009-11                                                             Version 0.0.3: Revision based on further comments in CT1\#62                                  0.0.3
  2009-11                                                             Version 0.0.4: Cleanup of whitespace and styles and specification number (24.xyz)             0.0.4
  2009-11                                                             Further editorial cleanups                                                          0.0.4     0.0.5
  2009-11                                                             Further editorial cleanups                                                          0.05      0.0.6
  2009-12              CT-46                                          V1.0.0 created by MCC for presentation to CT-46 for information and approval        0.0.6     1.0.0
  2009-12              CT-46                                          V8.0.0 created by MCC after approval at CT-46                                       1.0.0     8.0.0
  2009-12              CT-46                                          Upgrade to Rel-9                                                                    8.0.0     9.0.0
  2009-12              CT-46                                          Editorial correction                                                                9.0.0     9.0.1
  2010-03              CT-47        CP-100137      0001     1         Enable use of I1 when the home operator has configured it to do so                  9.0.1     9.1.0
  2011-03              CT-51        CP-110170      0006               MO identifier registered by OMNA                                                    9.1.0     9.2.0
  2011-03              CT-51                                          Upgrade to Rel-10                                                                   9.2.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              CT-57                                          Upgrade to Rel-11                                                                   10.0.0    11.0.0
  2014-09              CT-65                                          Upgrade to Rel-12                                                                   11.0.0    12.0.0
  2015-12              CT-70                                          Upgrade to Rel-13                                                                   12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  2017-03              CT-75                                                 Upgrade to Rel-14                14.0.0
  2018-06              SA-80         \-         \-       \-                  Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)   15.0.0
  2020-07              SA-88e        \-         \-       \-                  Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
