![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[7](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[7](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#ue-network-protocols)

[7](#general)

[8](#ftt-ims-protocol)

[8](#general-1)

[8](#ue-requested-ftt-ims-establishment-procedure)

[8](#general-2)

[8](#ue-procedures)

[8](#ue-requested-ftt-ims-establishment-procedure-initiation)

[8](#ue-requested-ftt-ims-establishment-procedure-initiation-via-restrictive-non-3gpp-access-network-type-i)

[8](#ue-requested-ftt-ims-establishment-procedure-initiation-via-restrictive-non-3gpp-access-network-type-ii)

[9](#ue-requested-ftt-ims-establishment-procedure-accepted)

[9](#eftf-procedures)

[9](#ip-packet-transport-ftt-ims-procedure)

[9](#general-3)

[9](#ue-procedures-1)

[9](#ip-packet-sending)

[9](#ip-packet-receiving)

[9](#eftf-procedures-1)

[9](#ip-packet-sending-1)

[9](#ip-packet-receiving-1)

[10](#ue-requested-ftt-ims-release-procedure)

[10](#general-4)

[10](#ue-procedures-2)

[10](#eftf-procedures-2)

[10](#eftf-requested-ftt-ims-release-procedure)

[10](#general-5)

[10](#eftf-procedures-3)

[10](#ue-procedures-3)

[10](#procedure-for-unknown-ftt-ims-envelope-types)

[10](#general-6)

[11](#ue-procedures-4)

[11](#eftf-procedures-4)

[11](#ip-roles-and-ip-based-procedures)

[11](#general-7)

[11](#ip-roles)

[11](#ue-procedures-5)

[11](#eftf-procedures-5)

[11](#inner-ip-address-assignment-procedure)

[11](#ue-procedures-6)

[12](#eftf-procedures-6)

[12](#pdus-and-parameters)

[12](#pdus-and-parameters-specific-to-ftt-ims-protocol)

[12](#general-8)

[12](#message-types-of-ftt-ims-messages)

[12](#generic-ftt-ims-envelope)

[13](#ip-packet-envelope)

[14](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 UE --
network protocols 4.1 General 5 FTT-IMS protocol 5.1 General 5.2 UE
requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure 5.2.1 General 5.2.2 UE
procedures 5.2.2.1 UE requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure
initiation 5.2.2.2 UE requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure
initiation via restrictive non-3GPP access network type I 5.2.2.3 UE
requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure initiation via restrictive
non-3GPP access network type II 5.2.2.4 UE requested FTT-IMS
establishment procedure *accepted* 5.2.3 EFTF procedures 5.3 IP packet
transport FTT-IMS procedure 5.3.1 General 5.3.2 UE procedures 5.3.2.1 IP
packet sending 5.3.2.2 IP packet receiving 5.3.3 EFTF procedures 5.3.3.1
IP packet sending 5.3.3.2 IP packet receiving 5.4 UE requested FTT-IMS
release procedure 5.4.1 General 5.4.2 UE procedures 5.4.3 EFTF
procedures 5.5 EFTF requested FTT-IMS release procedure 5.5.1 General
5.5.2 EFTF procedures 5.5.3 UE procedures 5.6 Procedure for unknown
FTT-IMS envelope types 5.6.1 General 5.6.2 UE procedures 5.6.3 EFTF
procedures 6 IP roles and IP based procedures 6.1 General 6.2 IP roles
6.2.1 UE procedures 6.2.2 EFTF procedures 6.3 Inner IP address
assignment procedure 6.3.1 UE procedures 6.3.2 EFTF procedures 7 PDUs
and parameters 7.1 PDUs and parameters specific to FTT-IMS protocol
7.1.1 General 7.1.2 Message types of FTT-IMS messages 7.1.2.1 Generic
FTT-IMS envelope 7.1.2.2 IP packet envelope Annex A (informative):
Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies procedures and protocol elements for
tunnelling of IMS traffic over restrictive access networks, specifically
procedures and protocol elements for establishing, maintaining, and
sending traffic via a firewall traversal tunnel between the UE and an
enhanced firewall traversal function (EFTF) in the network. The present
document is applicable to UE and EFTF.

The present document applies only to the case when the IMS traffic is
not routed via EPC of a PLMN. Procedures for tunnelling of IMS traffic
that is routed via EPC are specified in 3GPP TS 24.302 \[3\] annex F.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks; Stage 3\".

\[*4*\] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based
services\".

*\[5\] IETF RFC *791 *(September 1981)*: *\"*Internet Protocol*\".*

*\[6\] IETF RFC 2131 (March 1997): \"Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocol\".*

*\[7\] IETF RFC *2460 *(December 1998)*: *\"*Internet Protocol,
Version 6 (IPv6) Specification*\".*

*\[8\] IETF RFC *2817 *(May 2000)*: *\"*Upgrading to TLS Within
HTTP/1.1*\".*

*\[9\] IETF RFC *3736 *(April 2004): \"Stateless Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol (DHCP) Service for IPv6\".*

*\[10\] IETF RFC *4291 *(February 2006): \"IP Version 6 Addressing
Architecture\".*

*\[11\] IETF RFC 4862 (September 2007): \"IPv6 Stateless Address
Autoconfiguration\".*

*\[12\] Void.*

*\[13\] Void.*

\[14\] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication
Framework (AF)\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply.\
A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**Firewall traversal tunnel to IP network of IMS:** a TCP connection
with TLS connection enabling passing of envelopes between UE in
restrictive non-3GPP access network and EFTF, established in order to
reach IP network of IP multimedia core network subsystem.

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 24.229 \[*2*\] apply:

**IP multimedia core network subsystem**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 24.302 \[*3*\] apply:

**Restrictive non-3GPP access network type I**

**Restrictive non-3GPP access network type II**

**Restrictive non-3GPP access network**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 33.203 \[*4*\] apply:

**Enhanced firewall traversal function**

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

EFTF Enhanced firewall traversal function

FTT-IMS Firewall traversal tunnel to IP network of IMS

HTTP Hypertext transfer protocol

IMS IP multimedia core network subsystem

TCP Transmission control protocol

TLS Transport layer security

URI Uniform resource identifier

4 UE -- network protocols
=========================

4.1 General
-----------

In order to access to IMS via restrictive non-3GPP access network, the
UE and the EFTF shall establish a firewall traversal tunnel to IP
network of IMS (FTT-IMS) using the UE requested FTT-IMS establishment
procedure according to subclause 5.2.

The UE and the EFTF shall send the IP packets using the IP packet
transport FTT-IMS procedure according to subclause 5.3.

The UE and the EFTF shall use the IP protocol according to clause 6.

When FTT-IMS is no longer needed (e.g. if the UE deregistered from IMS),
the UE shall perform the UE requested FTT-IMS release procedure
according to subclause 5.4.

When FTT-IMS is no longer needed, the EFTF can perform the EFTF
requested FTT-IMS release procedure according to subclause 5.5.

NOTE: Keep-alive functionality is not defined in this document.
Keep-alive functionality defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\] can be used to
maintain the FTT-IMS between the UE and the EFTF.

5 FTT-IMS protocol
==================

5.1 General
-----------

The FTT-IMS protocol consists of the UE requested FTT-IMS establishment
procedure, the IP packet transport FTT-IMS procedure, the UE requested
FTT-IMS release procedure and the EFTF requested FTT-IMS release
procedure.

5.2 UE requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure
------------------------------------------------

### 5.2.1 General

The purpose of the UE requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure is to
establish an FTT-IMS between the UE and the EFTF.

### 5.2.2 UE procedures

#### 5.2.2.1 UE requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure initiation

If the UE is not configured with an HTTP proxy address, the UE shall
follow the procedures in subclause 5.2.2.2*.*

If the UE is configured with an HTTP proxy address, the UE shall follow
the procedures in subclause 5.2.2.3*.*

*NOTE: UE configuration of an* HTTP proxy address is out of scope of
3GPP.

#### 5.2.2.2 UE requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure initiation via restrictive non-3GPP access network type I

In order to establish an FTT-IMS, the UE shall establish a TCP
connection *to the EFTF address and destination port 443.*

If the TCP connection establishment is successful, the UE shall
establish a TLS connection over the TCP connection according to the TLS
profile specified in 3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\] annex E*. If the EFTF address
is a FQDN, the UE shall include a TLS extension of type \"server\_name\"
in the TLS client hello message according to* the TLS profile specified
in 3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\] annex E*.*

#### 5.2.2.3 UE requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure initiation via restrictive non-3GPP access network type II

If the UE is configured with HTTP proxy address, in order to establish
an FTT-IMS, the UE shall send HTTP CONNECT request to the HTTP proxy
address according to IETF RFC 2817 *\[8\]*. The UE shall populate
Request-URI of the HTTP CONNECT request with the EFTF address and
port 443.

*Upon receiving HTTP 2xx response to HTTP CONNECT request, the UE shall
establish* TLS connection according to the TLS profile specified in
3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\] annex E *over the TCP connection used for the HTTP
CONNECT request transport. If the EFTF address is a FQDN, the UE shall
include a TLS extension of type \"server\_name\" in the TLS client hello
message according to* the TLS profile specified in 3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\]
annex E*.*

#### 5.2.2.4 UE requested FTT-IMS establishment procedure *accepted*

*When valid TLS Finished message is received over the TCP connection,
the UE shall use the connection as the FTT-IMS.*

### 5.2.3 EFTF procedures

*T*he EFTF shall handle the TCP connection setup and the TLS connection
establishment according to the TLS profile specified in
3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\] annex E*.*

*When TLS Finished message is sent over the TCP connection according to*
the TLS profile specified in 3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\] annex E*, the EFTF
shall use the connection as the FTT-IMS.*

5.3 IP packet transport FTT-IMS procedure
-----------------------------------------

### 5.3.1 General

The purpose of the IP packet transport FTT-IMS procedure is to transport
an IPv4 packet or IPv6 packet over an FTT-IMS.

### 5.3.2 UE procedures

#### 5.3.2.1 IP packet sending

In order to send an IPv4 packet or IPv6 packet, the UE shall create an
IP packet envelope according to subclause 7.1.2.2, and shall populate
the IP packet field of the IP packet envelope with the IPv4 packet or
the IPv6 packet and shall send the IP packet envelope as TLS application
data over the FTT-IMS.

#### 5.3.2.2 IP packet receiving

Upon receiving the IP packet envelope as TLS application data over the
FTT-IMS, the UE shall:

\- if the UE supports IPv4 and the field in the four most significant
bits of the first octet of the IP packet field of the IP packet envelope
according to subclause 7.1.2.2 contains 4, handle the IP packet as an
IPv4 packet according to IETF RFC 791 *\[5\];*

\- if the UE supports IPv6 and the field in the four most significant
bits of the first octet of the IP packet field of the IP packet envelope
according to subclause 7.1.2.2 contains 6, handle the IP packet as an
IPv6 packet according to IETF RFC 2460 *\[7\]; and*

\- if the field in the four most significant bits of the first octet of
the IP packet field of the IP packet envelope according to
subclause 7.1.2.2 indicates not supported IP version, discard the IP
packet envelope.

NOTE: The field in the four most significant bits of the first octet of
both the IPv4 packet and the IPv6 packet indicates the IP version.

### 5.3.3 EFTF procedures

#### 5.3.3.1 IP packet sending

In order to send an IPv4 packet or IPv6 packet, the EFTF shall create an
IP packet envelope according to subclause 7.1.2.2, and shall populate
the IP packet field of the IP packet envelope with the IPv4 packet or
the IPv6 packet and shall send the IP packet envelope as TLS application
data over the FTT-IMS.

#### 5.3.3.2 IP packet receiving

Upon receiving the IP packet envelope as TLS application data over the
FTT-IMS, the EFTF shall:

\- if the EFTF supports IPv4 and the field in the four most significant
bits of the first octet of the IP packet field of the IP packet envelope
according to subclause 7.1.2.2 contains 4, handle the IP packet as an
IPv4 packet according to IETF RFC 791 *\[5\];*

\- if the EFTF supports IPv6 and the field in the four most significant
bits of the first octet of the IP packet field of the IP packet envelope
according to subclause 7.1.2.2 contains 6, handle the IP packet as an
IPv6 packet according to IETF RFC 2460 *\[7\]; and*

\- if the field in the four most significant bits of the first octet of
the IP packet field of the IP packet envelope according to
subclause 7.1.2.2 indicates not supported IP version, discard the IP
packet envelope.

NOTE: The field in the four most significant bits of the first octet of
both the IPv4 packet and the IPv6 packet indicates the IP version.

5.4 UE requested FTT-IMS release procedure
------------------------------------------

### 5.4.1 General

The purpose of the UE requested FTT-IMS release procedure is to release
an FTT-IMS when FTT-IMS is no longer needed.

### 5.4.2 UE procedures

In order to release the FTT-IMS, the UE shall send TLS close\_notify
alert according to the TLS profile specified in 3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\]
annex E

### 5.4.3 EFTF procedures

*T*he EFTF shall handle the TLS close\_notify alert according to the TLS
profile specified in 3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\] annex E*.*

5.5 EFTF requested FTT-IMS release procedure
--------------------------------------------

### 5.5.1 General

The purpose of the EFTF requested FTT-IMS release procedure is to
release an FTT-IMS when FTT-IMS is no longer needed.

### 5.5.2 EFTF procedures

In order to release the FTT-IMS, the EFTF shall send TLS close\_notify
alert according to the TLS profile specified in 3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\]
annex E*.*

### 5.5.3 UE procedures

*T*he UE shall handle the TLS close\_notify alert according to the TLS
profile specified in 3GPP TS 33.310 \[14\] annex E*.*

5.6 Procedure for unknown FTT-IMS envelope types
------------------------------------------------

### 5.6.1 General

The purpose of this procedure is forward compatibility.

### 5.6.2 UE procedures

Upon receiving a generic FTT-IMS envelope with the type field indicating
an envelope type other than the envelope types defined by this version
of specification in subclause 7.1.2, the UE shall discard the generic
FTT-IMS envelope.

### 5.6.3 EFTF procedures

Upon receiving a generic FTT-IMS envelope with the type field indicating
an envelope type other than the envelope types defined by this version
of specification in subclause 7.1.2, the EFTF shall discard the generic
FTT-IMS envelope.

6 IP roles and IP based procedures
==================================

6.1 General
-----------

This subclause describes IP roles and IP based procedures.

6.2 IP roles
------------

### 6.2.1 UE procedures

If IPv4 is supported, the UE shall support acting as host according to
IETF RFC 791 *\[5\]*.

If IPv6 is supported, the UE shall support acting as host according to
IETF RFC 2460 *\[7\]*.

### 6.2.2 EFTF procedures

If IPv4 is supported, the EFTF shall support acting as gateway according
to IETF RFC 791 *\[5\]*.

If IPv6 is supported, the EFTF shall support acting as router according
to IETF RFC 2460 *\[7\]*.

6.3 Inner IP address assignment procedure
-----------------------------------------

### 6.3.1 UE procedures

If the UE has a network interface with a universally administered MAC
address, the UE shall use a universally administered MAC address of a
network interface of the UE as the UE FTT-IMS MAC address. If the UE
does not have a network interface with a universally administered MAC
address, the UE shall use a locally administered MAC address where the
least significant bit of the last octet is set to zero as the UE FTT-IMS
MAC address.

If IPv4 is supported, the UE shall support acting as DHCPv4 client
according to IETF RFC 2131 *\[6\]*.

If IPv6 is supported, the UE shall support acting as host supporting the
IPv6 *stateless address autoconfiguration* according to
IETF RFC 4862 *\[11\]*.

Once the FTT-IMS is established, the UE shall:

1\) if the UE needs IPv4 connectivity, *request IPv4 address using
DHCPv4* according to IETF RFC 2131 *\[6\]. The UE shall use the htype,
hlen, chaddr according to* the UE FTT-IMS MAC address*; and*

2\) if the UE needs IPv6 connectivity, *generate IPv6 address using*
IPv6 *stateless address autoconfiguration* according to
IETF RFC 4862 *\[11\]. The UE shall* create a *link-local address
according to* IETF RFC 4291 *\[10\] using* the UE FTT-IMS MAC address*.*

NOTE 1: Further IPv6 configuration can be done using stateless DHCPv6
according to IETF RFC 3736 \[9\].

NOTE 2: DHCPv4 uses IPv4 as transport; IPv6 *stateless address
autoconfiguration* uses IPv6 as transport *and* DHCPv6 uses IPv6 as
transport. Thus, the DHCPv4 messages, IPv6 *stateless address
autoconfiguration* messages *and* DHCPv6 messages are transported via
the FTT-IMS using the IP packet transport FTT-IMS procedure according to
subclause 5.3.

### 6.3.2 EFTF procedures

If IPv4 is supported, the EFTF shall support acting as DHCPv4 server
according to IETF RFC 2131 *\[6\]*. When acting as DHCPv4 server, the
EFTF shall handle each existing FTT-IMS as a different subnet.

If the EFTF has a network interface with a universally administered MAC
address, the EFTF shall use a universally administered MAC address of a
network interface of the EFTF as the EFTF FTT-IMS MAC address. If the
EFTF does not have a network interface with a universally administered
MAC address, the EFTF shall use a locally administered MAC address where
the least significant bit of the last octet is set to one as the EFTF
FTT-IMS MAC address.

If IPv6 is supported, the EFTF shall support acting as router supporting
the IPv6 *stateless address autoconfiguration* according to
IETF RFC 4862 *\[11\]. The EFTF shall create a link-local address
according to IETF* *RFC* *4291* *\[10\] using the EFTF FTT-IMS MAC
address.*

7 PDUs and parameters
=====================

7.1 PDUs and parameters specific to FTT-IMS protocol
----------------------------------------------------

### 7.1.1 General

The least significant bit of a field is represented by the lowest
numbered bit of the highest numbered octet of the field. When the field
extends over more than one octet, the order of bit values progressively
decreases as the octet number increases.

Figure 7.1.1-1 shows an example of a field where the most significant
bit of the field is marked MSB and the least significant bit of the
field is marked LSB.

  ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- ----- ---------
  7     6   5   4   3   2   1   0     
  MSB   x   x   x   x   x   x   x     octet 1
  x     x   x   x   x   x   x   x     
  x     x   x   x   x   x   x   LSB   octet N
  ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- ----- ---------

Figure 7.1.1-1: Example of bit ordering of a field

### 7.1.2 Message types of FTT-IMS messages

#### 7.1.2.1 Generic FTT-IMS envelope

Generic FTT-IMS envelope defines structure of messages passed via
FTT-IMS.

Generic FTT-IMS envelope is coded according to figure 7.1.2.1-1 and
table 7.1.2.1-1.

+---------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| 7       | 6       | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |   |
+---------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| Type    | octet 1 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+---------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| Length  | octet 2 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|         |         |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|         | octet 3 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+---------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| Payload | octet 4 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|         |         |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|         | octet n |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+---------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

Figure 7.1.2.1-1: Generic FTT-IMS envelope

Table 7.1.2.1-1: Generic FTT-IMS envelope

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type field indicates the envelope type.
  Length field indicates the length of the generic FTT-IMS envelope in octets.
  Payload field is an optional field and its value depends on the envelope type.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 7.1.2.2 IP packet envelope

IP packet envelope is coded according to figure 7.1.2.2-1 and
table 7.1.2.2-1.

+-----------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| 7         | 6       | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |   |
+-----------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| Type      | octet 1 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+-----------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| Length    | octet 2 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|           |         |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|           | octet 3 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+-----------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| IP packet | octet 4 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|           |         |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|           | octet n |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
+-----------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

Figure 7.1.2.2-1: IP packet envelope

Table 7.1.2.2-1: IP packet envelope

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type field is according to subclause 7.1.2.1 and is set to 1.
  Length field is according to subclause 7.1.2.1. The Length field value is bigger than 3.
  IP packet field contains an IPv4 packet according to IETF RFC 791 *\[5\]* or IPv6 packet according to IETF RFC 2460 *\[7\]*.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | **TSG | **TSG | *     | **    | **Su  | **    | **    |
| ate** |  \#** | D     | *CR** | Rev** | bject | Old** | New** |
|       |       | oc.** |       |       | /Comm |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT    | C1-1  |       |       | Ske   |       | 0.0.0 |
| 13-08 | 1\#84 | 33160 |       |       | leton |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of TS |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rappo |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rteur |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT    | C1-1  |       |       | I     | 0.0.0 | 0.1.0 |
| 13-08 | 1\#84 | 33161 |       |       | ncorp |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | orate |       |       |
|       |       | C1-1  |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       | 33157 |       |       | greed |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | P-CRs |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\#84 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT1\# | C1-1  |       |       | I     | 0.1.0 | 0.2.0 |
| 13-10 | 84bis | 34105 |       |       | ncorp |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | orate |       |       |
|       |       | C1-1  |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       | 34445 |       |       | greed |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | P-CRs |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT1\# |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 84bis |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-62 | CP-1  |       |       | Ve    | 0.2.0 | 1.0.0 |
| 13-12 |       | 30718 |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | esent |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT62  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT    | C1-1  |       |       | Minor | 1.0.0 | 1.1.0 |
| 14-01 | 1\#86 | 40019 |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-63 | CP-1  |       |       | Ve    | 1.1.0 | 2.0.0 |
| 14-02 |       | 40111 |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | esent |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT-63 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roval |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | Post  |       |       |       | Ve    | 2.0.0 | 1     |
| 14-03 | CT-63 |       |       |       | rsion |       | 2.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | after |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roval |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT-63 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-64 | CP-1  | 0001  |       | Edit  | 1     | 1     |
| 14-06 |       | 40332 |       |       | orial | 2.0.0 | 2.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-68 | CP-1  | 0002  |       | Ali   | 1     | 1     |
| 15-06 |       | 50329 |       |       | gning | 2.1.0 | 3.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | TLS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | files |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | used  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT1   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | SA3   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TLS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ofile |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                          
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  2017-03              CT-75                                                 Upgrade to Rel-14                14.0.0
  2018-06              SA-80         \-         \-       \-                  Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)   15.0.0
  2020-07              SA-88e        \-         \-       \-                  Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
