![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[7](#ussi-mo)

[7](#mo-configuration-parameters)

[7](#general)

[7](#node-x)

[8](#xname)

[8](#xussd_using_cs_domain_only)

[8](#a-x3gpp_ps_data_off)

[8](#b-x3gpp_ps_data_offussi_exempt)

[9](#c-x3gpp_ps_data_offussi_roaming_exempt)

[9](#xext)

[10](#annex-a-informative-ussi-mo-ddf)

[13](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations
4 USSI MO 5 MO configuration parameters 5.1 General 5.2 Node: /*\<X\>*
5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name 5.4 /*\<X\>*/USSD\_using\_CS\_domain\_only 5.4A
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off 5.4B
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/USSI\_exempt 5.4C
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/USSI\_roaming\_exempt 5.5 /*\<X\>*/Ext
Annex A (informative): USSI MO DDF Annex B (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document defines the unstructured supplementary service data
(USSD) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem (IMS)
management object (MO). The MO is compatible with OMA device management
protocol specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using
the OMA DM device description framework as described in the enabler
release definition OMA-ERELD\_DM-V1\_2 \[2\].

The USSD using IMS (USSI) MO consists of relevant configuration
parameters that can be managed for the UE\'s USSI capabilities specified
in 3GPP TS 24.390 \[3\].

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1\_2-20070209-A: \"Enabler Release Definition for
OMA Device Management, Version 1.2\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 24.390: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD)
using IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem IMS; Stage 3\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 23.221: \"Architectural requirements\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 24.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD);
Stage 3\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

CN Core Network

DDF Device Description Framework

DM Device Management

EHPLMN Equivalent Home Public Land Mobile Network

HPLMN Home Public Land Mobile Network

IM IP Multimedia

IMS IP Multimedia core network Subsystem

IP Internet Protocol

MO Management Object

OMA Open Mobile Alliance

SIP Session Initiation Protocol

UE User Equipment

USSD Unstructured Supplementary Service Data

USSI USSD using IMS

4 USSI MO
=========

The USSI MO is used to manage settings of the UE for USSI. The USSI MO
covers configuration parameters for a UE that supports the USSI
capabilities specified in 3GPP TS 24.390 \[3\].

The MO identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-ussi:1.0.

Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.

Figure 4.1: USSI MO

5 MO configuration parameters
=============================

5.1 General
-----------

This clause describes the configuration parameters for the USSI MO.

5.2 Node: /*\<X\>*
------------------

This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more accounts for a
fixed node.

\- Occurrence: OneOrMore

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: N/A

The interior node is mandatory if the UE supports USSI capabilities
specified in 3GPP TS 24.390 \[3\]. Support for a UE is defined by the UE
role as specified in 3GPP TS 24.390 \[3\].

NOTE: One node is normally used. More nodes are only used in case the
terminal supports multiple UICCs.

5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name
-----------------

The Name leaf is a name for the USSI settings.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: chr

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: \<User displayable name\>

5.4 /*\<X\>*/USSD\_using\_CS\_domain\_only
------------------------------------------

The USSD\_using\_CS\_domain\_only leaf indicates HPLMN operator
preference for invocation of originating USSD requests using the
mechanism specified in 3GPP TS 24.090 \[5\]. This equates to \"USSD
requests are to be invoked via the CS domain\" as described in
3GPP TS 23.221 \[4\].

NOTE: In absence of this configuration parameter, originating USSD
request are invoked in domain used for originating voice sessions as
described in 3GPP TS 23.221 \[4\].

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: null

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: null

5.4A /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off
---------------------------------

The interior node contains configuration parameters for 3GPP PS data
off.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

5.4B /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/USSI\_exempt
----------------------------------------------

The leaf indicates whether the USSI is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 - Indicates that the USSI is not a 3GPP PS data off exempt service.

1 - Indicates that the USSI is a 3GPP PS data off exempt service.

NOTE: This MO is used when the UE is in the HPLMN or the EHPLMN, or the
UE is in the VPLMN and the USSI\_roaming\_exempt node is not configured.

5.4C /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/USSI\_roaming\_exempt
-------------------------------------------------------

The leaf indicates whether the USSI is a 3GPP PS data off exempt service
when the UE is in the VPLMN.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 - Indicates that the USSI is not a 3GPP PS data off roaming exempt
service.

1 - Indicates that the USSI is a 3GPP PS data off roaming exempt
service.

5.5 /*\<X\>*/Ext
----------------

The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information
about the USSI management is being placed (vendor meaning application
vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the vendor extension is identified
by vendor specific name under the ext node. The tree structure under the
vendor identified is not defined and can therefore include one or more
un-standardized sub-trees.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: N/A

######## Annex A (informative): USSI MO DDF

This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own
DDF for the complete device. This DDF can include more features than
this minimal standardized version.

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<!DOCTYPE MgmtTree PUBLIC \"-//OMA//DTD-DM-DDF 1.2//EN\"

\"http://www.openmobilealliance.org/tech/DTD/DM\_DDF-V1\_2.dtd\"\>

\<MgmtTree\>

\<VerDTD\>1.2\</VerDTD\>

\<Man\>\--The device manufacturer\--\</Man\>

\<Mod\>\--The device model\--\</Mod\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName/\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<Description\>USSI configuration parameters\</Description\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<OneOrMore/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Permanent/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>The Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) using IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem (IMS) Management Object
(MO).\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName\>urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-ussi:1.0\</DDFName\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>Name\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<chr/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>The name for the USSI setting.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>USSD\_using\_CS\_domain\_only\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<null/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>The HPLMN operator preference for invocation of originating
USSD requests.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>3GPP\_PS\_data\_off\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Replace/\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Configuration parameters for 3GPP PS data off.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>USSI\_exempt\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Whether the USSI is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>USSI\_roaming\_exempt\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Whether the USSI is a 3GPP PS data off roaming exempt
service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>Ext\</NodeName\>

\<!\-- The Extension node starts here. \--\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>A collection of all Extension objects.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\</MgmtTree\>

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                  
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                   **Old**   **New**
  2014-05                                                             Version 0.1.0: based on C1-141702, C1-141703, C1-141704                         0.1.0
  2014-06              CT-64        CP-140281                         Version 1.0.0 created for presentation for information and approval   0.1.0     1.0.0
  2014-06              CT-64        CP-140455                                                                                               1.0.0     2.0.0
  2014-06              Post CT-64                                     Version 12.0.0 created after approval at CT-64                        2.0.0     12.0.0
  2014-09              CT-65        CP-140668      0001               Fixing access types not aligned in clause 5 and annex A               12.0.0    12.1.0
  2014-12              CT-66        CP-140853      0002               Resolving editor\'s note on registration of MOID with OMA             12.1.0    12.2.0
  2015-12              CT-70                                          Upgrade to Rel-13                                                     12.2.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                       
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                          **New version**
  2017-03              CT-75         CP-170130   0003               B         USSI configuration for 3GPP PS Data Off                                      14.0.0
  2018-06              CT-80         CP-181074   0004     2         B         USSI configuration for 3GPP PS Data Off2                                     15.0.0
  2018-12              CT-82         CP-183077   0005               F         Addition of the object identifier in the DDF of the 3GPP Management Object   16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
