![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#mo-for-xcap-over-ut-interface-for-manipulating-ss)

[7](#mo-configuration-parameters)

[7](#general)

[7](#node-x)

[8](#xname)

[8](#xext)

[8](#xaccessforxcap)

[9](#a-xauthenticationforxcap)

[9](#xxcap_conn_params_policy)

[9](#xxcap_conn_params_policyx)

[9](#xxcap_conn_params_policyxaccess)

[10](#xxcap_conn_params_policyxxdm_mo_ref)

[10](#x3gpp_ps_data_off)

[10](#x3gpp_ps_data_offss_xcap_config_exempt)

[11](#x3gpp_ps_data_offss_xcap_config_roaming_exempt)

[12](#annex-a-informative-ddf-of-mo-for-xcap-over-ut-interface-for-manipulating-ss)

[16](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations
4 MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS 5 MO configuration
parameters 5.1 General 5.2 Node: /*\<X\>* 5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name 5.4
/*\<X\>*/Ext 5.5 /*\<X\>*/AccessForXCAP 5.5a
/*\<X\>*/AuthenticationForXCAP 5.6 /*\<X\>*/XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy
5.7 /*\<X\>*/XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy/*\<X\>* 5.8
/*\<X\>*/XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy/*\<X\>*/*access* 5.9
/*\<X\>*/XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy/*\<X\>*/*XDM\_MO\_ref* 5.10
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off 5.11
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/SS\_XCAP\_config\_exempt 5.12
/*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/SS\_XCAP\_config\_roaming\_exempt Annex A
(informative): DDF of MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS
Annex B (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document defines the management object (MO) for extensible
markup language (XML) configuration access protocol (XCAP) over the Ut
interface for manipulating supplementary services (SS).

The MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS is compatible with
OMA device management protocol specifications, version 1.2 and upwards,
and is defined using the OMA DM device description framework as
described in the enabler release definition OMA-ERELD\_DM-V1\_2 \[2\].

The MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS consists of
relevant configuration parameters that can be managed for a UE
supporting the UE role specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 \[3\].

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] OMA OMA-ERELD-DM-V1\_2-20070209-A: \"Enabler Release Definition
for OMA Device Management, Version 1.2\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration
Access Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating
Supplementary Services\".

\[4\] OMA OMA-TS-XDM\_MO-V1\_1-20080627-A: \"OMA Management Object for
XML Document Management\".

\[5\] OMA OMA-TS-DM\_Protocol-V1\_2-20070209-A: \"OMA Device Management
Protocol\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA);
Generic Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 33.221: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA);
Support for subscriber certificates\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 22.011 \[6\] apply:

**3GPP PS data off**

**3GPP PS data off exempt service**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 24.623 \[3\] apply:

**SS configuration via XCAP**

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

DDF Device Description Framework

DM Device Management

IP Internet Protocol

IP-CAN IP-Connectivity Access Network

MO Management Object

OMA Open Mobile Alliance

PS Packet Switched

SS Supplementary Services

UE User Equipment

XCAP XML Configuration Access Protocol

XML Extensible Markup Language

4 MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS
===================================================

The MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS is used to manage
settings of the UE for extensible markup language (XML) configuration
access protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for manipulating
supplementary services (SS). Figure 4-1 gives overview of the
configuration parameters of the MO for XCAP over Ut interface for
manipulating SS.

The MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS covers
configuration parameters for a UE supporting the UE role specified in
3GPP TS 24.623 \[3\].

The MO identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-xcaputss:1.0.

Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.

Figure 4-1: MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS

5 MO configuration parameters
=============================

5.1 General
-----------

This clause describes the configuration parameters for the MO for XCAP
over Ut interface for manipulating SS.

5.2 Node: /*\<X\>*
------------------

This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more accounts for a
fixed node.

\- Occurrence: OneOrMore

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

The interior node is mandatory for a UE supporting the UE role specified
in 3GPP TS 24.623 \[3\].

NOTE: One node is normally used. More nodes are only used in case the
terminal supports multiple UICCs.

Child nodes of this interior node which are not defined in this version
of the present document are ignored.

5.3 /*\<X\>*/Name
-----------------

This leaf is a name for the settings for the XCAP over the Ut interface
for manipulating the SS.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: chr

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: \<User displayable name\>

5.4 /*\<X\>*/Ext
----------------

The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information
about the management of the XCAP over the Ut interface for manipulating
the SS is being placed (vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor
etc.). Usually the vendor extension is identified by vendor specific
name under the ext node. The tree structure under the vendor identified
is not defined and can therefore include one or more un-standardized
sub-trees.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get

\- Values: N/A

5.5 /*\<X\>*/AccessForXCAP
--------------------------

This leaf is the policy on access type used for XCAP.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: int

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: one of the values specified in table 5.5-1.

Table 5.5-1: Possible values for the AccessForXCAP leaf

  ------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value   Description
  0       any access type
  1       3GPP accesses only
  2       EPC or 5GCN via WLAN IP-CAN only
  3       Non-seamless WLAN offload only
  4       3GPP accesses preferred, non-seamless WLAN offload as secondary
  5       3GPP accesses preferred, EPC or 5GCN via WLAN IP-CAN as secondary
  6-255   not assigned
  ------- -------------------------------------------------------------------

A \"not assigned\" value is interpreted as \"any access type\" value.

5.5a /*\<X\>*/AuthenticationForXCAP
-----------------------------------

The AuthenticationForXCAP leaf provides a means to define the
authentication mechanism for Ut reference point.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: int

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1, 2, 3

0 -- Indicates that the authentication mechanism for Ut reference point
is GBA\_ME as defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 \[7\].

1 -- Indicates that the authentication mechanism for Ut reference point
is GBA\_U as defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 \[7\].

2 -- Indicates that the authentication mechanism for Ut reference point
is GBA\_Digest as defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 \[7\].

3 -- Indicates that the authentication mechanism for Ut reference point
is SSC (support for subscriber certificates) as defined in
3GPP TS 33.221 \[8\].

5.6 /*\<X\>*/XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy
---------------------------------------

This interior node contains the XCAP connection parameters policy.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

If this interior node contains a child node not defined in this version
of the present document, the child node is ignored.

5.7 /*\<X\>*/XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy/*\<X\>*
-----------------------------------------------

This interior node contains one XCAP connection parameters policy part.

\- Occurrence: OneOrMore

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

If this interior node contains a child node not defined in this version
of the present document, this interior node is ignored.

If a descendant node of this interior node contains a value not defined
in this version of the present document, this interior node is ignored.

5.8 /*\<X\>*/XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy/*\<X\>*/*access*
--------------------------------------------------------

This leaf contains an access identifier, with values shown in
table 5.8-1

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: int

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

Table 5.8-1: Possible values for the access leaf

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Value                            | Description                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 1                                | 3GPP accesses                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 2                                | Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via    |
|                                  | Wireless Local Access Network    |
|                                  | (WLAN) IP-CAN (see NOTE 1)       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 3                                | Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via    |
|                                  | trusted Wireless Local Access    |
|                                  | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 4                                | Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via    |
|                                  | untrusted Wireless Local Access  |
|                                  | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5                                | 5G Core Network (5GCN) via       |
|                                  | Wireless Local Access Network    |
|                                  | (WLAN) IP-CAN (see NOTE 2)       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 6                                | 5G Core Network (5GCN) via       |
|                                  | untrusted Wireless Local Access  |
|                                  | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7                                | 5G Core Network (5GCN) via       |
|                                  | trusted Wireless Local Access    |
|                                  | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0, 8-255                         | Not assigned                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: Evolved Packet Core      |                                  |
| (EPC) via Wireless Local Access  |                                  |
| Network (WLAN) IP-CAN            |                                  |
| encompasses both the Evolved     |                                  |
| Packet Core (EPC) via trusted    |                                  |
| Wireless Local Access Network    |                                  |
| (WLAN) IP-CAN and the Evolved    |                                  |
| Packet Core (EPC) via untrusted  |                                  |
| Wireless Local Access Network    |                                  |
| (WLAN) IP-CAN.                   |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: 5G Core Network (5GCN)   |                                  |
| via Wireless Local Access        |                                  |
| Network (WLAN) IP-CAN            |                                  |
| encompasses both the 5G Core     |                                  |
| Network (5GCN) via trusted       |                                  |
| Wireless Local Access Network    |                                  |
| (WLAN) IP-CAN and the 5G Core    |                                  |
| Network (5GCN) via untrusted     |                                  |
| Wireless Local Access Network    |                                  |
| (WLAN) IP-CAN.                   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

5.9 /*\<X\>*/XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy/*\<X\>*/*XDM\_MO\_ref*
--------------------------------------------------------------

This leaf contains an XCAP connection parameters reference.

The value of this leaf is a full device URI as specified in
OMA-TS-DM\_Protocol-V1\_2 \[5\], identifying the \<X\> interior node
specified in OMA-TS-XDM\_MO-V1\_1 \[4\] in the UE management tree.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: chr

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

5.10 /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off
---------------------------------

The interior node contains configuration parameters for 3GPP PS data
off.

\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne

\- Format: node

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: N/A

5.11 /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/SS\_XCAP\_config\_exempt
----------------------------------------------------------

The leaf indicates whether the manipulation of supplementary services
(SS) settings using XCAP over Ut interface is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 - Indicates that the SS configuration via XCAP is not a 3GPP PS data
off exempt service.

1 - Indicates that the SS configuration via XCAP is a 3GPP PS data off
exempt service.

5.12 /*\<X\>*/3GPP\_PS\_data\_off/SS\_XCAP\_config\_roaming\_exempt
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The leaf indicates whether the manipulation of supplementary services
(SS) settings using XCAP over Ut interface is a 3GPP PS data off roaming
exempt service.

\- Occurrence: One

\- Format: bool

\- Access Types: Get, Replace

\- Values: 0, 1

0 - Indicates that the SS configuration via XCAP is not a 3GPP PS data
off roaming exempt service.

1 - Indicates that the SS configuration via XCAP is a 3GPP PS data off
roaming exempt service.

######## Annex A (informative): DDF of MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS

This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own
DDF for the complete device. This DDF can include more features than
this minimal standardized version.

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<!DOCTYPE MgmtTree PUBLIC \"-//OMA//DTD-DM-DDF 1.2//EN\"

\"http://www.openmobilealliance.org/tech/DTD/DM\_DDF-V1\_2.dtd\"\>

\<MgmtTree\>

\<VerDTD\>1.2\</VerDTD\>

\<Man\>\--The device manufacturer\--\</Man\>

\<Mod\>\--The device model\--\</Mod\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName/\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<Description\>Configuration parameters for the XCAP over the Ut
interface for manipulating the SS\</Description\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<OneOrMore/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Permanent/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>The Management Object (MO) for Extensible Markup Language
(XML) Configuration Access Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for
Manipulating Supplementary Services (SS).\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName\>urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-xcaputss:1.0\</DDFName\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>Name\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<chr/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>The name for the settings for the XCAP over the Ut interface
for manipulating the SS.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>AccessForXCAP\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<int/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Permanent/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>The policy on access type used for XCAP\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

**\<Node\>**

**\<NodeName\>AuthenticationForXCAP\</NodeName\>**

**\<DFProperties\>**

**\<AccessType\>**

**\<Get/\>**

**\<Replace/\>**

**\</AccessType\>**

**\<DFFormat\>**

**\<int/\>**

**\</DFFormat\>**

**\<Occurrence\>**

**\<ZeroOrOne/\>**

**\</Occurrence\>**

**\<Scope\>**

**\<Permanent/\>**

**\</Scope\>**

**\<DFTitle\>Mechanism used for performing authentication for Ut
reference point\</DFTitle\>**

**\<DFType\>**

**\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>**

**\</DFType\>**

**\</DFProperties\>**

**\</Node\>**

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>XCAP\_conn\_params\_policy\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>XCAP connection parameters policy.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName/\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<OneOrMore/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>XCAP connection parameters policy part\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>*access*\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<int/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>An access identifier.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>*XDM\_MO\_ref*\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<chr/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>An XCAP connection parameters reference.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>3GPP\_PS\_data\_off\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Replace/\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Configuration parameters for 3GPP PS data off.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>SS\_XCAP\_config\_exempt\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Whether the SS configuration via XCAP is a 3GPP PS data off
exempt service.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>SS\_XCAP\_config\_roaming\_exempt\</NodeName\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\<Replace/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<bool/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<One/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>Whether the SS configuration via XCAP is a 3GPP PS data off
exempt service for roaming.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<MIME\>text/plain\</MIME\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\<Node\>

\<NodeName\>Ext\</NodeName\>

\<!\-- The Extension node starts here. \--\>

\<DFProperties\>

\<AccessType\>

\<Get/\>

\</AccessType\>

\<DFFormat\>

\<node/\>

\</DFFormat\>

\<Occurrence\>

\<ZeroOrOne/\>

\</Occurrence\>

\<Scope\>

\<Dynamic/\>

\</Scope\>

\<DFTitle\>A collection of all Extension objects.\</DFTitle\>

\<DFType\>

\<DDFName/\>

\</DFType\>

\</DFProperties\>

\</Node\>

\</Node\>

\</MgmtTree\>

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                    
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                       **New version**
  2016-08                                                                     Incorporating C1-163574, C1-163575, C1-163576. \"inteface\" corrected to \"interface\".                   0.1.0
  2016-10                                                                     Incorporating C1-164693, C1-164697. Editorial changes. OMA-TS-DM\_Protocol-V1\_2 made version specific.   0.2.0
  2016-10                                                                     Editorial changes.                                                                                        0.2.1
  2016-11              CT-74         CP-160707                                Version 1.0.0 created for presentation for information to CT plenary                                      1.0.0
  2017-01                                                                     Incorporating C1-170001, C1-170002, C1-170005. Correcting title of OMA OMA-TS-XDM\_MO-V1\_1-20080627-A.   1.1.0
  2017-02                                                                     Incorporating C1-170571.                                                                                  1.2.0
  2017-02              CT-75         CP-170163                                Version 2.0.0 created for presentation for approval to CT plenary                                         2.0.0
  2017-03              CT-75                                                  Version 14.0.0 created after approval                                                                     14.0.0
  2017-06              CT-76         CP-171085   0001     1         B         3GPP PS Data Off and Ut/XCAP services configuration MO                                                    14.1.0
  2017-12              CT-78         CP-173062   0002               F         Correction of a data format                                                                               14.2.0
  2018-06              SA-80         \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                                                            15.0.0
  2018-09              CT-81         CP-182156   0003     3         F         3GPP data off in roaming and Ut/XCAP services configuration MO                                            15.1.0
  2018-12              CT-82         CP-183077   0004               F         Addition of the object identifier in the DDF of the 3GPP Management Object                                16.0.0
  2018-12              CT-82         CP-183077   0005     1         B         Authentication mechanisms for Ut reference point                                                          16.0.0
  2019-06              CT-84         CP-191126   0007     1         A         Correct policy for XCAP when access type involves 5G                                                      16.1.0
  2019-06              CT-84         CP-191126   0009     1         A         Correct enforcement of access specific configuration for XCAP when using 5Gx                              16.1.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
