![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[7](#general)

[7](#identity-management)

[8](#entities)

[8](#identity-management-client)

[8](#identity-management-server)

[8](#mc-service-client)

[8](#http-proxy)

[9](#authentication-procedures)

[9](#general-1)

[9](#identity-management-client-procedures)

[9](#user-authentication)

[10](#token-exchange-procedure)

[10](#token-request-to-a-partner-system-idm-server)

[11](#identity-management-server-procedures)

[11](#user-authentication-1)

[12](#token-exchange-procedure-1)

[12](#token-request-from-an-idm-client-to-a-partner-system)

[13](#interintra-domain-interface-security)

[14](#annex-a-normative-http-entities)

[14](#a.1-scope)

[14](#a.2-procedures)

[14](#a.2.1-http-client)

[14](#a.2.1.1-general)

[14](#a.2.1.2-http-client-in-ue)

[15](#a.2.1.3-http-client-in-network-entity)

[15](#a.2.2-http-proxy)

[15](#a.2.2.1-general)

[15](#a.2.2.2-http-request-method-from-http-client-in-ue)

[16](#a.2.2.3-http-request-method-from-http-client-in-network-entity-within-trust-domain)

[16](#a.2.3-http-server)

[17](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
General 4.1 Identity management 5 Entities 5.1 Identity management
client 5.2 Identity management server 5.3 MC service client 5.4 HTTP
proxy 6 Authentication procedures 6.1 General 6.2 Identity management
client procedures 6.2.1 User authentication 6.2.2 Token exchange
procedure 6.2.3 Token request to a partner system IdM server 6.3
Identity management server procedures 6.3.1 User authentication 6.3.2
Token exchange procedure 6.3.3 Token request from an IdM client to a
partner system 7 Inter/intra domain interface security Annex A
(normative): HTTP entities A.1 Scope A.2 Procedures A.2.1 HTTP client
A.2.1.1 General A.2.1.2 HTTP client in UE A.2.1.3 HTTP client in network
entity A.2.2 HTTP proxy A.2.2.1 General A.2.2.2 HTTP request method from
HTTP client in UE A.2.2.3 HTTP request method from HTTP client in
network entity within trust domain A.2.3 HTTP server Annex B
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

This document specifies the identity management and authentication
protocols needed to support Mission Critical Services (MCSs). Identity
management applies only to on-network operation.

MCSs are services that require preferential handling compared to normal
telecommunication services, e.g. in support of police or fire brigade.

MCSs can be used for public safety applications and also for general
commercial applications (e.g., utility companies and railways).

This document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) supporting the
identity management client functionality, and to application servers
supporting the identity management server functionality.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] Void.

\[3\] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over
LTE\".

\[4\] IETF RFC 2616: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol \-- HTTP/1.1\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".

\[6\] \"OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 1\".

\[7\] W3C.REC-html401-19991224: \"HTML 4.01 Specification\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
support mission critical communication services\".

\[9\] Void.

\[10\] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 24.483: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) Management
Object (MO)\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 24.379: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) call
control Protocol specification\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".

\[14\] IETF RFC 6750: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer
Token Usage\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and network
application function interface (Ua); Protocol details\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support
mission critical services; Stage 2\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 33.180: \"Security of the Mission Critical Service\".

\[18\] IETF RFC 8693: \"OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange\".

\[19\] IETF RFC 7523: \"JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0
Client Authentication and Authorization Grants\".

\[20\] IETF RFC 7159: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
Interchange Format\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 24.281: \"Mission Critical Video (MCVideo) signalling
control; Protocol specification\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 23.282: \"Mission Critical Data (MCData) signalling
control; Protocol specification\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**IdM client id:** The client\_id as specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 \[2\]
which is used to identify the IdM client to the IdM server.

**Authorisation endpoint:** An identity management server protocol
endpoint used by the identity management client to obtain an
authorisation grant, as specified in IETF RFC 6749 \[5\].

**Token endpoint:** An identity management server protocol endpoint used
by the identity management client to exchange an authorisation grant for
an access token, as specified in IETF RFC 6749 \[5\].

**MC UE:** A UE that is used to host one or more MC service clients.

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 22.179 \[3\] apply:

**MCPTT UE**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 23.379 \[8\] apply:

**MCPTT group ID**

**MCPTT ID**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 23.228 \[13\] apply:

**Public service identity**

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions given in 3GPP TS 23.280 \[16\] apply:

**MC service**

**MC service client**

**MC service group**

**MC service ID**

**MC service user**

**MC user**

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol

IdM Identity Management

LTE Long Term Evolution

MCData Mission Critical Data

MC ID Mission Critical User Identity

MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk

MCVideo Mission Critical Video

OIDC OpenID Connect

TLS Transport Layer Security

UE User Equipment

4 General
=========

4.1 Identity management
-----------------------

The Identity Management functional model for MC services is shown in
figure 4.1-1 below and consists of the identity management server
located in the common services core and the identity management client
located in the MC UE. The IdM server and the IdM client in the MC UE
establish the foundation for MC services user authentication and user
authorisation.

Figure 4.1-1: Functional model for MC services identity management

The CSC-1 reference point, between the IdM client in the UE and the
Identity Management server, provides the interface for user
authentication. CSC-1 supports OpenID Connect Core 1.0 \[6\] and
IETF RFC 6749 \[5\].

The OpenID Connect profile for MC services is implemented as described
in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]. The MC services user authentication, the MC
services user authorisation, the OpenID Connect Core 1.0 \[6\] and the
OpenID Connect profile described in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] for MC
services forms the basis of the MC services identity management
architecture.

Subclause 6.2.1 and subclause 6.3.1 describes the procedures for the MC
services user authentication. OIDC is flexible with respect to the user
authentication mechanism used. As 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] has indicated
that username and password authentication is mandatory to support, that
mechanism is included in subclause 6.2.1 and subclause 6.3.1, although
other mechanisms are possible.

When the MC services user is authenticated, the procedure will provide
an id token, an access token and a refresh token, which are all
described in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]. The access token is scoped to the
services the MC services user is authorised for, e.g., group management
services, key management services and MC services. The access token will
be utilized for MCPTT service authorisation, MCData service
authorisation and MCVideo service authorisation as documented in
3GPP TS 24.379 \[12\], 3GPP TS 24.282 \[22\] and 3GPP TS 24.281 \[21\]
respectively.

After an MC service user has obtained an access token from their home
IdM server, they can acquire a security token from their home IdM server
by means of the procedures of subclause  6.2.2, subclause 6.3.2. The
security token can be used to acquire an access token from the IdM
server of a partner system to allow access to resources in the partner
system\'s domain by means of the procedures of subclause 6.2.3 and
subclause 6.3.3.

5 Entities
==========

5.1 Identity management client
------------------------------

The identity management client acts as the application user agent for MC
ID transactions. It interacts with the identity management server. The
identity management client:

\- shall support identity management registration to the identity
management server;

\- shall support the MC services user authentication framework as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\];

\- shall support a username and password method of authentication as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

\- may support additional methods of authentication.

5.2 Identity management server
------------------------------

The identity management server is a functional entity that is capable of
authenticating the MC ID. It contains the knowledge and means to do
authentication by verifying the credentials supplied by the user. The
identity management server:

\- shall support identity management registration of the identity
management client;

\- shall support the MC services user authentication framework as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\];

\- shall support a username and password method of authentication as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

\- may support additional methods of authentication.

5.3 MC service client
---------------------

The MC service client shall interact with the IdM client as specified in
subclause 6.2:

\- to trigger initiation of the user authentication procedure; and

\- to receive the credentials obtained from the IdM server.

5.4 HTTP proxy
--------------

The HTTP proxy acts as the proxy for all hypertext transactions between
the HTTP client and the HTTP server. The HTTP proxy terminates the TLS
session with the HTTP client of the MC UE in order to allow the HTTP
client to establish a single TLS session for hypertext transactions with
multiple HTTP servers as specified in 3GPP TS 23.280 \[16\].

NOTE: The HTTP proxy is in the same trust domain as the HTTP servers
that are located within a MC service provider\'s network.

6 Authentication procedures
===========================

6.1 General
-----------

6.2 Identity management client procedures
-----------------------------------------

### 6.2.1 User authentication

Upon an indication from the MC service client to initiate MC service
user authentication, the IdM client shall perform the user
authentication procedure according to 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] with the
following clarifications:

1\) shall establish a TLS tunnel to the authorisation endpoint of the
IdM server as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] using the configured
URL of the authorisation endpoint of the IdM server as specified in the
\"/\<x\>/OnNetwork/AppServerInfo/IDMSAuthEndpoint\" leaf node defined in
3GPP TS 24.483 \[11\] and the clarifications in annex A;

2\) shall generate an OIDC Authentication Request message as specified
in the OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\] with the
following clarifications:

a\) shall generate an HTTP GET request method according to
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\];

b\) shall include the configured parameter IdM client id as the
client\_id parameter specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] in the query
component of the authorization endpoint\'s URI using the
\"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format as specified in
W3C.REC-html401-19991224 \[7\]; and

NOTE 1: The configuration of client\_id is specified in
3GPP TS 24.483 \[11\].

c\) shall include the remaining required parameters as specified in
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] in the query component of the authorization
endpoint\'s URI using the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format
as specified in W3C.REC-html401-19991224 \[7\]; and

3\) shall send the HTTP GET request method towards the IdM server.

NOTE 2: The OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] specification allows for an
alternative mechanism for sending the OIDC Authentication request
message using an HTTP POST request method which can be used in place of
steps 1, 2, and 3 above.

Upon receipt of an HTTP 200 (OK) response from the IdM server, the IdM
client:

1\) shall prompt the MC service user for their username and password;

NOTE 3: Other types of authentication are supported and are not defined
by the OIDC specifications. 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] has defined username
and password as a mandatory authentication method to be supported, hence
a procedure to realize that method is included here.

2\) shall generate an HTTP POST request method containing the MC service
user\'s username and password; and

3\) shall send the HTTP POST request method towards the IdM server.

Upon receipt of an OIDC Authentication Response message, the IdM client:

1\) shall establish a TLS tunnel to the token endpoint of the IdM server
as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] using the configured URL of the
token endpoint of the IdM server as specified in the
\"/\<x\>/OnNetwork/AppServerInfo/IDMSTokenEndpoint\" leaf node defined
in 3GPP TS 24.483 \[11\] and the clarifications in annex A;

2\) shall generate an OIDC Token Request message as specified in
OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\] with the following
clarifications:

a\) shall generate an HTTP POST request method according to
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\]; and

b\) shall include the grant\_type parameter set to a value of
\"authorization\_code\" and the other required parameters in the entity
body of the HTTP POST request method using the using the
\"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format as specified in
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

3\) shall send the HTTP POST request method towards the IdM server.

Upon receipt of an OIDC Token Response message, the IdM client:

1\) shall validate the id\_token, access\_token and refresh token in the
received OIDC Token Response message as specified in the
OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] specification; and

2\) shall provide the id\_token and access\_token in the received OIDC
Token Response message to the MC service client.

NOTE 4: The method in which the IdM client provides the id\_token and
access\_token to the MC service client is implementation specific.

The MC UE may repeat the entire procedure in this subclause as needed to
obtain the necessary authorisation tokens for the MC service clients,
depending on the scope parameter in the Authentication Request message
as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\].

### 6.2.2 Token exchange procedure

Upon an indication from the MC service client to acquire a security
token for authentication of the MC service user with a partner IdM
server, the IdM client:

1\) shall establish a TLS tunnel to the token endpoint of the home IdM
server as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] using the configured URL of
the token endpoint of the IdM server as specified in the
\"/\<x\>/OnNetwork/AppServerInfo/IDMSTokenEndpoint\" leaf node of the
MCS UE initial configuration MO defined in 3GPP TS 24.483 \[11\] and the
clarifications in annex A;

2\) shall generate a Token Exchange Request message as specified in
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] and IETF RFC 8693 \[18\] with the following
clarifications:

a\) shall generate an HTTP POST request method according to
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\];

b\) shall include the following parameters in the in the entity body of
the HTTP POST request method using the
\"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format as specified in
W3C.REC-html401-19991224 \[7\]:

i\) the grant\_type parameter set to a value of
\"urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange\" as specified in
subclause B.7.2 of 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

ii\) the other required parameters as specified in subclause B.7.2 of
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

3\) shall send the HTTP POST request method towards the IdM server.

Upon receipt of a Token Exchange Response message as specified in
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] and IETF RFC 8693 \[18\], the IdM client:

1\) shall extract the security token contained in the access\_token
parameter of the received Token Exchange Response message; and

2\) shall temporarily store the extracted security token.

NOTE 1: The security token can be used by the procedures of
subclause 6.2.3 to obtain access tokens from the partner systems
indicated by the resource parameter included in the Token Exchange
Request message for access to the resources of that partner system.

NOTE 2: The security token only needs to be stored until it\'s lifetime
has expired or until it is replaced by a newly acquired security token.

### 6.2.3 Token request to a partner system IdM server

Upon an indication from the MC service client to acquire an access token
from a partner IdM server to authorise the MC service user to access the
resources of a partner system, the IdM client:

1\) shall obtain a valid security token appropriate for inclusion in a
Token Request message to be sent to the targeted partner IdM server by
the procedures specified in subclause 6.2.2 if the IdM client has not
already done so; and

2\) shall generate a Token Request message as specified in the
OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\] with the following
clarifications:

a\) shall establish a TLS tunnel to the configured URL of the token
endpoint of the partner system IdM server as specified in the MC service
user profile MO with the following clarifications:

i\) for MCPTT, use the token endpoint defined in the
\"/\<x\>/\<x\>/OnNetwork/GroupServerInfo/IDMSTokenEndpointList/\<x\>/Entry/IDMSTokenID\"
leaf node as defined in the MCPTT service user profile MO
3GPP TS 24.483 \[11\];

ii\) for MCData, use the token endpoint defined in the
\"/\<x\>/\<x\>/OnNetwork/MCDataGroupList/\<x\>/Entry/IdMSTokenEndPointList/\<x\>/IdMSTokenEndPoint\"
leaf node as defined in the MCData service user profile MO
3GPP TS 24.483 \[11\]; and

iii\) for MCVideo, use the token endpoint defined in the
\"/\<x\>/\<x\>/OnNetwork/MCVideoGroupList/\<x\>/Entry/IdMSTokenEndPointList/\<x\>/IdMSTokenEndPoint\"
leaf node as defined in the MCVideo service user profile MO
3GPP TS 24.483 \[11\];

NOTE 1: The specific IDM token endpoint can be found by finding the
server information for a particular MC service group.

NOTE 2: The specific IDM token endpoint can also be found in the
respective MC service user profile document (see 3GPP TS 24.483 \[11\])
in the parameters corresponding to those identified in steps i), ii) and
iii) above.

b\) shall generate an HTTP POST request method according to
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\] including in the entity body the following
parameters using the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format as
specified in W3C.REC-html401-19991224 \[7\]:

i\) the grant\_type parameter set to value of
\"urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer\" as specified in
subclause B.7.4 of 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] and IETF RFC \[19\]; and

ii\) all other required parameters specified in subclause B.7.4 of
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

c\) shall send the HTTP POST request method towards the token endpoint
of the partner system IdM server.

6.3 Identity management server procedures
-----------------------------------------

### 6.3.1 User authentication

Upon receipt of an OIDC Authentication Request message as specified in
the OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\] via a secure TLS
tunnel between the identity management client and the authorisation
endpoint of the IdM server, the IdM server:

1\) shall validate the received OIDC Authentication Request message as
specified in the OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\];

2\) shall generate an HTTP 200 (OK) response according to
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\] including form data to prompt the MC service user
for their username and password credentials; and

NOTE 1: The username will be the MC service user\'s MC ID.

3\) shall send the HTTP 200 (OK) response towards the IdM client.

Upon receipt of an HTTP POST request method from the IdM client
containing the MC service user\'s username and password, the IdM server
authenticates the MC service user and:

NOTE 2: Other methods of authentication can be used by the MC service
provider and are not defined by the OIDC specifications.
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] has defined username and password as a mandatory
authentication method to be supported for MC services, hence a procedure
to realize that method is included here.

1\) shall generate an OIDC Authentication Response message as specified
in OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\] with the following
clarifications:

a\) shall generate an HTTP 302 (FOUND) response according to
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\]; and

b\) shall include the required parameters including the
authorization\_code as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] in the query
component of the redirection URI contained in the Location header field
of the HTTP FOUND request method using the
\"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format as specified in
W3C.REC-html401-19991224 \[7\]; and

2\) shall send the HTTP 302 (FOUND) response towards the IdM client.

Upon receipt of an OIDC Token Request message via a secure TLS tunnel
established between the identity management client and the token
endpoint of the IdM server, the IdM server:

1\) shall validate the OIDC Token Request message and if valid shall
generate an OIDC Token Response message as specified in
OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\] with the following
clarifications:

a\) shall generate an HTTP 200 (OK) response according to
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\];

b\) shall based on the received MC ID obtained from the received user
authentication credentials, determine the MC service ID of the MC
service user;

c\) shall include an id\_token, access\_token and refresh\_token and MC
service ID as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

d\) shall include the other required parameters as specified in
OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\]; and

2\) shall send the HTTP 200 (OK) response towards the IdM client.

### 6.3.2 Token exchange procedure

Upon receipt of a Token Exchange Request message as specified in
IETF RFC 8693 \[18\] via a secure TLS tunnel between the identity
management client and the token endpoint of the IdM server, the IdM
server:

1\) shall validate the received Token Exchange Request message as
specified in draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange \[18\];

2\) shall generate a Token Exchange Response message as specified in
IETF RFC 8693 \[18\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\] with the following
clarifications:

a\) shall generate an HTTP 200 (OK) response to the received Token
Exchange Request message according to IETF RFC 2616 \[4\]; and

b\) include the parameters specified in subclause B.7.3 of
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] serialized into a JavaScript Object Notation
(JSON) structure as specified in IETF RFC 8693 \[18\] and
IETF RFC 7159 \[20\] with the following clarification:

i\) include the parameters specified in subclause B.8 of
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] in the security token included in the
access\_token parameter specified in subclause B.7.3 of
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

3\) shall send the HTTP 200 (OK) response towards the IdM client.

### 6.3.3 Token request from an IdM client to a partner system

Upon receipt of an OIDC Token Request message via a secure TLS tunnel
established between the identity management client and the token
endpoint of the IdM server, the IdM server:

1\) shall validate the Token Request message and the included security
token as specified in subclause B.11.3 of 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\] and if
valid shall generate a Token Response message as specified in
OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\] with the following
clarifications:

NOTE: The access token referred to in step 1) is the security token
provided by the home IdM server by the procedures of subclause 6.3.2.

a\) shall generate an HTTP 200 (OK) response according to
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\];

b\) shall include an id\_token, access\_token and refresh\_token and
MCPTT ID as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]; and

c\) shall include the other required parameters as specified in
OpenID Connect 1.0 \[6\] and IETF RFC 6749 \[5\]; and

2\) shall send the HTTP 200 (OK) response towards the IdM client.

7 Inter/intra domain interface security
=======================================

Inter/intra domain interface security shall be provided as specified in
3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\];

######## Annex A (normative): HTTP entities

A.1 Scope
=========

This annex describes the functionality expected from the HTTP entities
(i.e. the HTTP client, the HTTP proxy and the HTTP server) defined by
3GPP TS 23.280 \[16\] and 3GPP TS 33.179 \[2\].

A.2 Procedures
==============

A.2.1 HTTP client
-----------------

### A.2.1.1 General

The HTTP client in the UE shall support the client role defined in
IETF RFC 2616 \[4\].

### A.2.1.2 HTTP client in UE

The HTTP client in the UE shall support the client role defined in
IETF RFC 2818 \[10\].

The HTTP client in the UE shall support transport layer security (TLS)
as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\].

The HTTP client in the UE is configured with the following parameters:

1\) a home HTTP proxy FQDN;

2\) a home HTTP proxy port;

3\) a TLS tunnel authentication method. The TLS tunnel authentication
method parameter is set to one of the following:

a\) one-way authentication of the HTTP proxy based on the server
certificate;

b\) mutual authentication based on certificates; and

c\) mutual authentication based on pre-shared key;

as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\];

4\) if the TLS tunnel authentication method is the mutual authentication
based on certificates:

a\) TLS tunnel authentication X.509 certificate; and

5\) if the TLS tunnel authentication method is the mutual authentication
based on pre-shared key;

a\) TLS tunnel authentication pre-shared key.

The HTTP client in the UE shall establish a TCP connection towards the
home HTTP proxy FQDN and the home HTTP proxy port, unless the specific
TCP connection is to be used for the IdM client to IdM server procedures
described in subclause 6.2 and subclause 6.3 in the present document, in
which case the HTTP client shall establish a TCP connection towards the
IdM server.

The HTTP client in the UE shall establish a TLS tunnel via the TCP
connection as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]. When establishing the
TLS tunnel, the HTTP client in the UE shall act as a TLS client and the
UE shall perform the TLS tunnel authentication using the TLS
authentication method indicated by the TLS tunnel authentication method
parameter according to 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]. The UE shall use the
configured TLS tunnel authentication X.509 certificate and the
configured TLS tunnel authentication pre-shared key when applicable for
the used TLS authentication method. In order to prevent
man-in-the-middle attacks, the HTTP client in the UE shall check the
home HTTP proxy FQDN against the server\'s identity as presented in the
received server\'s certificate message if the TCP connection terminates
on the HTTP proxy. The HTTP client in the UE shall not check the portion
of dereferenced HTTP URL against the server\'s identity as presented in
the received server\'s certificate message if the TCP connection
terminates on the HTTP proxy, but shall do so if the TCP connection
terminates on the IdM server.

NOTE: The TLS tunnel can be terminated in the HTTP proxy (rather than in
the HTTP server providing the dereferenced HTTP URL).

The HTTP client in the UE shall send and receive all HTTP messages via
the TLS tunnel.

If the HTTP client in the UE has an access token of the \"bearer\" token
type as specified in IETF RFC 6750 \[14\], the HTTP client in the UE
shall include an Authorization header field with the \"Bearer\"
authentication scheme as specified in IETF RFC 6750 \[14\] in HTTP
requests.

### A.2.1.3 HTTP client in network entity

The HTTP client in the network entity is configured with the following
parameters:

1\) a home HTTP proxy FQDN; and

2\) a home HTTP proxy port.

The HTTP client in the network entity shall send and receive all HTTP
messages via the home HTTP proxy.

The HTTP client in the network entity shall insert an
X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header field as specified in
3GPP TS 24.109 \[15\] in the HTTP request and shall set
X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header field to the identity of the HTTP client
in the network entity. The identity of the HTTP client in the network
entity can be a public service identity, an MC service group ID, or an
MC service ID.

A.2.2 HTTP proxy
----------------

### A.2.2.1 General

The HTTP proxy shall support proxy role of IETF RFC 2616 \[4\].

### A.2.2.2 HTTP request method from HTTP client in UE

The HTTP proxy shall support the server role of IETF RFC 2616 \[4\], and
IETF RFC 2818 \[10\].

The HTTP proxy shall support transport layer security (TLS) as specified
in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\].

The HTTP proxy is configured with the following HTTP proxy parameters:

1\) an FQDN of an HTTP proxy for UEs; and

2\) a TCP port of an HTTP proxy for UEs.

The HTTP proxy shall support establishing TCP connections on the FQDN of
HTTP proxy for UEs and the TCP port of HTTP proxy for UEs. The HTTP
proxy shall support establishing a TLS tunnel via each such TCP
connection as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]. When establishing the
TLS tunnel, the HTTP proxy shall act as TLS server.

Upon reception of an HTTP request method via a TLS tunnel:

1\) if the HTTP request method contains an X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity
header field as specified in 3GPP TS 24.109 \[15\], the HTTP proxy shall
reject the HTTP request method with an HTTP 403 (Forbidden) response and
do not continue with rest of the steps;

2\) if the HTTP request method contains a Request-URI identifying a
resource in a partner\'s MC serviceprovider, the HTTP proxy shall
forward the HTTP request method according to the Request-URI; and

3\) if an HTTP request method contains a Request-URI identifying a
resource in own MC service provider, the HTTP proxy shall act as reverse
proxy for the HTTP request method and shall forward the HTTP request
method according to the MCPTT provider policy.

### A.2.2.3 HTTP request method from HTTP client in network entity within trust domain

The HTTP proxy is configured with the following parameters:

1\) a FQDN of an HTTP proxy for trusted entities; and

2\) a TCP port of an HTTP proxy for trusted entities.

Upon receiving an HTTP request method via a TCP connection established
on the FQDN of HTTP proxy for UEs and the TCP port of HTTP proxy for
UEs, if the TCP connection is between network elements within trusted
domain as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 \[17\]:

1\) if the HTTP request method contains a Request-URI identifying a
resource in a partner\'s MC service provider, the HTTP proxy shall
forward the HTTP request method according to the Request-URI; and

2\) if an HTTP request method contains Request-URI identifying a
resource in own MC service provider, the HTTP proxy shall act as reverse
proxy for the HTTP request method and shall forward the HTTP request
method according to MC service provider policy.

A.2.3 HTTP server
-----------------

The HTTP server shall support the server role of IETF RFC 2616 \[4\].

Upon reception of an HTTP request:

1\) if the received HTTP request does not contain an Authorization
header field with the \"Bearer\" authentication scheme and a bearer
access token as specified in IETF RFC 6750 \[14\] and the received HTTP
request does not contain an X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header field as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.109 \[15\], the HTTP server shall reject the
request with HTTP 403 (Forbidden) response;

2\) if the received HTTP request contains an Authorization header field
with the \"Bearer\" authentication scheme and a bearer access token as
specified in IETF RFC 6750 \[14\];

a\) the HTTP server shall validate the bearer access token as specified
in IETF RFC 6750 \[14\]; and

b\) the HTTP server shall consider the MC service ID derived from the
bearer access token as the identity of the sender of the HTTP request;
and

3\) if the received HTTP request does not contain an Authorization
header field with the \"Bearer\" authentication scheme and a bearer
access token as specified in IETF RFC 6750 \[14\] and the received HTTP
request contains an X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header field as specified
in 3GPP TS 24.109 \[15\], the HTTP server shall consider the URI in the
X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header field as the identity of the sender of
the HTTP request.

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | **TSG | **TSG | *     | **    | **Su  | **    | **    |
| ate** |  \#** | D     | *CR** | Rev** | bject | Old** | New** |
|       |       | oc.** |       |       | /Comm |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | In    | \-    | 0.0.0 |
| 15-07 |       |       |       |       | itial |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pro   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | posal |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | T1\#9 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2-bis |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Con   | 0.0.0 | 0.1.0 |
| 15-08 |       |       |       |       | tains |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | foll  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | owing |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | P-CRs |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\#92 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | -bis: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ah-15 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0013, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1ah-1 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 50033 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Minor |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | align |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | appor |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | teur. |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Up    | 0.1.0 | 0.1.1 |
| 15-09 |       |       |       |       | dated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | clude |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | spe   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cific |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | n     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | umber |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | after |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | T\#69 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | lloca |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tion. |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Con   | 0.1.1 | 0.2.0 |
| 16-02 |       |       |       |       | tains |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | foll  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | owing |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | P-CRs |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | T1-on |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CPTT: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ah-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0030, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ah-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0105, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ah-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0103, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1ah-1 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 60088 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Con   | 0.2.0 | 0.3.0 |
| 16-02 |       |       |       |       | tains |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | foll  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | owing |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | P-CRs |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CT1   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | \#96: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1040, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1222, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1228, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1229, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1260, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1300, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-16 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1301, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-1  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 61388 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-71 | CP-1  |       |       | Ve    | 0.3.0 | 1.0.0 |
| 16-03 |       | 60055 |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | esent |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | nform |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roval |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-71 |       |       |       | Ve    | 1.0.0 | 1     |
| 16-03 |       |       |       |       | rsion |       | 3.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 3.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | after |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roval |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-71 |       |       |       | Minor | 1     | 1     |
| 16-03 |       |       |       |       | edit  | 3.0.0 | 3.0.1 |
|       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | anges |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | by TS |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rappo |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rteur |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-72 | CP-1  | 0001  | 1     | C     | 1     | 1     |
| 16-06 |       | 60322 |       |       | orrec | 3.0.1 | 3.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | HTTP  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | erver |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | auth  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | entic |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ating |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | HTTP  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | lient |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-72 | CP-1  | 0002  |       | User  | 1     | 1     |
| 16-06 |       | 60322 |       |       | auth  | 3.0.1 | 3.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | entic |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | CT-72 | CP-1  | 0003  |       | Corre | 1     | 1     |
| 16-06 |       | 60322 |       |       | ction | 3.0.1 | 3.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | IdM   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | lient |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | IdM   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | erver |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | inte  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rface |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     |       |       |       | C     | 24    | 24    |
| 16-12 | T\#74 |       |       |       | hange | .382\ | .482\ |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    | 1     | 1     |
|       |       |       |       |       | spec  | 3.1.0 | 3.1.1 |
|       |       |       |       |       | n     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | umber |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 4.382 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 4.482 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | wider |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | scope |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | anged |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | title |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                   
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                      **New version**
  2016-12              CT-74         CP-160733   0005               F         Identity Management endpoint correction (this was a CR to 24.382)                                        13.2.0
  2017-03              CT-75         CP-170053   0002               F         Scope TS naming adaptation for R13 24.482                                                                13.3.0
  2017-03              CT-75         CP-170127   0001               F         Modifying references in TS 24.482 to cater for rel-14 Stage 2 and Stage 3 mission critical restructure   14.0.0
  2017-06              CT-76         CP-171114   0003     1         B         Updating subclause 4.1 for multi MC service applicability                                                14.1.0
  2017-06              CT-76         CP-171114   0004     1         B         Security stage 2 reference change, additional definitions and abbreviations for R14 IdM                  14.1.0
  2017-06              CT-76         CP-171114   0005     1         B         Updated Entities subclauses for IdM                                                                      14.1.0
  2017-06              CT-76         CP-171114   0006     1         B         Updated client procedures for IdM                                                                        14.1.0
  2017-06              CT-76         CP-171114   0007     2         B         Updated server procedures for IdM                                                                        14.1.0
  2017-06              CT-76         CP-171114   0008     1         B         Updated clause 7 and Annex A for IdM                                                                     14.1.0
  2017-06              CT-76         CP-171114   0009     2         B         Addition of token exchange procedures                                                                    14.1.0
  2017-09              CT-77         CP-172101   0010               F         Token exchange corrections                                                                               14.2.0
  2017-09              CT-77         CP-172101   0011               F         Subclause 4.1 updates and reference corrections                                                          14.2.0
  2018-03              CT-79         CP-180072   0012     1         F         Correction to Identity Management Token Exchange procedures                                              14.3.0
  2018-06              SA-80         \-          \-       \-                  Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                                                           15.0.0
  2020-06              CT-88e        CP-201087   -0014    1-        A         draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange has been published as RFC8693                                            15.1.0
  2020-07              SA-88e        \-          \-       \-                  Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                                           **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
