![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1083333333333334in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[7](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[7](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[8](#terminating-identification-presentation-tip-and-terminating-identification-restriction-tir)

[8](#introduction)

[8](#description)

[8](#general-description)

[8](#operational-requirements)

[8](#provisionwithdrawal)

[8](#tip-provisionwithdrawal)

[9](#tir-provisionwithdrawal)

[9](#requirements-on-the-originating-network-side)

[9](#requirements-on-the-terminating-network-side)

[10](#syntax-requirements)

[10](#signalling-procedures)

[10](#general)

[10](#activationdeactivation)

[10](#a-registrationerasure)

[10](#b-interrogation)

[10](#invocation-and-operation)

[10](#actions-at-the-originating-ue)

[11](#void)

[11](#void-1)

[11](#actions-at-the-as-serving-the-originating-ue)

[11](#void-2)

[11](#void-3)

[11](#void-4)

[11](#void-5)

[11](#actions-at-the-as-serving-the-terminating-ue)

[12](#void-6)

[12](#void-7)

[12](#actions-at-the-terminating-ue)

[12](#interaction-with-other-services)

[12](#communication-session-hold-hold)

[12](#terminating-identification-presentation-tip)

[12](#terminating-identification-restriction-tir)

[12](#originating-identification-presentation-oip)

[12](#originating-identification-restriction-oir)

[13](#conference-conf)

[13](#communication-diversion-services-cdiv)

[13](#malicious-communication-identification-mcid)

[13](#enhanced-calling-name-ecnam)

[13](#multi-device-mud)

[13](#multi-identity-mid)

[14](#interactions-with-other-networks)

[14](#void-8)

[14](#void-9)

[14](#void-10)

[14](#parameter-values-timers)

[14](#service-configuration)

[14](#general-1)

[14](#data-semantics)

[15](#xml-schema)

[16](#annex-a-informative-signalling-flows)

[17](#annex-b-informative-example-of-filter-criteria)

[17](#b.1-originating-ifc-for-tip-service)

[17](#b.2-terminating-ifc-for-tir-service)

[18](#annex-c-informative-void)

[19](#annex-d-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) and Terminating
Identification Restriction (TIR) 4.1 Introduction 4.2 Description 4.2.1
General description 4.3 Operational requirements 4.3.1
Provision/withdrawal 4.3.1.1 TIP provision/withdrawal 4.3.1.2 TIR
provision/withdrawal 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
4.3.3 Requirements on the terminating network side 4.4 Syntax
requirements 4.5 Signalling procedures 4.5.0 General 4.5.1
Activation/deactivation 4.5.1A Registration/erasure 4.5.1B Interrogation
4.5.2 Invocation and operation 4.5.2.1 Actions at the originating UE
4.5.2.2 Void 4.5.2.3 Void 4.5.2.4 Actions at the AS serving the
originating UE 4.5.2.5 Void 4.5.2.6 Void 4.5.2.7 Void 4.5.2.8 Void
4.5.2.9 Actions at the AS serving the terminating UE 4.5.2.10 Void
4.5.2.11 Void 4.5.2.12 Actions at the terminating UE 4.6 Interaction
with other services 4.6.1 Communication session Hold (HOLD) 4.6.2
Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) 4.6.3 Terminating
Identification Restriction (TIR) 4.6.4 Originating Identification
Presentation (OIP) 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
4.6.6 Conference (CONF) 4.6.7 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)
4.6.8 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID) 4.6.9 Enhanced
Calling Name (eCNAM) 4.6.10 Multi-Device (MuD) 4.6.11 Multi-Identity
(MiD) 4.7 Interactions with other networks 4.7.1 Void 4.7.2 Void 4.7.3
Void 4.8 Parameter values (timers) 4.9 Service configuration 4.9.0
General 4.9.1 Data semantics 4.9.2 XML schema Annex A (informative):
Signalling flows Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria B.1
Originating IFC for TIP service B.2 Terminating IFC for TIR service
Annex C (informative): Void Annex D (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as
ETSI TS 183 008 \[18\]. It was transferred to the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP) in January 2008.

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the stage three protocol description of
the Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) and Terminating
Identification Restriction (TIR) services, based on stage one and two of
the ISDN COLP \[3\] and COLR \[4\] supplementary services. It provides
the protocol details in the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN)
subsystem based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Session
Description Protocol (SDP).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on SIP
and SDP\".

\[3\] ETSI EN 300 094 V2.1.1: \"Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN); Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP) supplementary
service; Service description\".

\[4\] ETSI ETS 300 095 (January 1992): \"Integrated Services Digital
Network (ISDN); Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
supplementary service; Service description\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 3323: \"A Privacy Mechanism for the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".

\[6\] IETF RFC 3325: \"Private Extensions to the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) for Network Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks\".

\[7\] IETF RFC 2396: \"Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic
Syntax\".

\[8\] IETF RFC 3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\".

\[9\] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".

\[10\] Void.

\[11\] IETF RFC 2806: \"URLs for Telephone Calls\".

\[12\] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public
telecommunication numbering plan\".

\[13\] ITU-T Recommendation I.210: \"Principles of telecommunication
services supported by an ISDN and the means to describe them\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP multimedia subsystem; Stage 2\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration
Access Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating
Supplementary Services\".

\[16\] Void

\[17\] IETF RFC 4916: \"Connected Identity in the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".

\[18\] ETSI TS 183 008 V1.6.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet
converged Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN);
PSTN/ISDN simulation services Terminating Identification Presentation
(TIP) and Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR); Protocol
specification\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 24.238: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) based user
configuration; stage 3\".

\[20\] IETF RFC 4825: \"The Extensible Markup Language (XML)
Configuration Access Protocol (XCAP)\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**Call Session Control Function (CSCF):** See 3GPP TS 23.002 \[1\].

**dialog:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**header:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**header field:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**identity information:** all the information (IETF RFC 2806 \[11\] /
IETF RFC 2396 \[7\] / ITU-T Recommendation E.164 \[12\]) identifying a
user, including trusted (network generated) and/or untrusted (user
generated) addresses

NOTE: Identity information takes the form of either a SIP URI (see
IETF RFC 3261 \[9\]) or a \"tel\" URI (see IETF RFC 3966 \[8\]).

**incoming initial request:** all requests intended to initiate either a
dialog or a standalone transaction received from the served user

**Interconnection Border Control Function (IBCF):** See
3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\].

**method:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**outgoing initial request:** all requests intended to initiate either a
dialog or a standalone transaction terminated by the served user

**provisional response:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**public user identity:** See 3GPP TS 23.228 \[14\], subclause 4.3.3.2
and 3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\].

**request:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**response:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**session:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**(SIP) transaction:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**supplementary service:** See ITU-T Recommendation I.210 \[13\],
clause 2.4.

**tag:** See IETF RFC 3261 \[9\].

**trusted identity information:** network generated user public identity
information

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

AS Application Server

CDIV Communication DIVersion

CN Core Network

CONF CONFerence

CS Circuit Switched

CSCF Call Session Control Function

HOLD communication HOLD

IBCF Interconnection Border Control Function

IFC Initial Filter Criteria

IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem

IP Internet Protocol

ISDN Integrated Service Data Network

MCID Malicious Communication IDentification

MiD **Multi-iDentity**

MuD **Multi-Device**

OIP Originating Identification Presentation

OIR Originating Identification Restriction

PSTN Public Switch Telephone Network

S-CSCF Serving-Call Session Control Function

SIP Session Initiation Protocol

TIP Terminating Identification Presentation

TIR Terminating Identification Restriction

UE User Equipment

XML Extensible Markup Language

4 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) and Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
================================================================================================

4.1 Introduction
----------------

The **Terminating Identification Presentation** (**TIP)** service
provides the originating party with the possibility of receiving
identity information in order to identify the terminating party.

The network shall deliver the Terminating Identity to the originating
party on *communication* acceptance regardless of the terminal
capability to handle the information.

The **Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)** is a service
offered to the connected party which enables the connected party to
prevent presentation of the terminating identity information to
originating party.

4.2 Description
---------------

### 4.2.1 General description

The **Terminating Identification Presentation** (**TIP)** service
provides the originating party with the possibility of receiving trusted
information in order to identify the terminating party.

The **Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)** is a service
offered to the terminating party which enables the terminating party to
prevent presentation of the terminating identity information to
originating party.

4.3 Operational requirements
----------------------------

### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal

#### 4.3.1.1 TIP provision/withdrawal

The TIP service may be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider or be generally available.

The TIP service shall be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.

As a general operator policy a special arrangement may exist on a per
subscriber basis or on a general behaviour basis whereby the terminating
user\'s identity information intended to be transparently transported by
the network is not screened by the network.

#### 4.3.1.2 TIR provision/withdrawal

The TIR service, temporary mode, may be provided on a subscription basis
or may be generally available.

The TIR service, permanent mode, shall be provided on a subscription
basis.

As a network option, the TIR service can be offered with several
subscription options. A network providing the TIR service shall support
temporary mode at a minimum. Subscription options are summarized in
table 1.

Table 1: TIR subscription options

+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Subscription option values | Values                                 |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Mode                       | ‑ permanent mode (active for all       |
|                            | requests)                              |
|                            |                                        |
|                            | ‑ temporary mode (specified by the     |
|                            | user per request)                      |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
| Temporary mode default     | ‑ presentation restricted              |
|                            |                                        |
|                            | ‑ presentation not restricted          |
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+

### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side

For originating users that subscribe to the TIP service, if network
provided identity information about the terminator is available, and if
presentation is allowed, the network shall include that information in
the responses sent to the user.

If the presentation of the network asserted identity is restricted due
to the TIR service, then the originating user shall receive an
indication that the network provided identity was not sent because of
restriction.

If the network asserted identity information is not available at the
originating network (for reasons such as interworking), then the network
shall indicate to the originating user that the network asserted
identity information was not included for reasons other than
restriction.

As a national option, the originating AS can override the presentation
restriction indication and the terminating identity is then presented to
the originating subscriber for specific originating access\'s categories
(e.g. police).

NOTE 1: The priv-value \"id\" in the Privacy header field is not
expected be removed when removing any P-Asserted-Identity header field
as described in 3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\].

NOTE 2: Annex B provides an example of an initial filter criterion that
can be applied for the TIP/TIR service.

NOTE 3: It is assumed that the IBCF is responsible for stripping the
P-Asserted‑Identity from the SIP header when interworking with untrusted
networks.

### 4.3.3 Requirements on the terminating network side

As part of the basic communication control procedures specified in
3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\], the following requirements apply at the
terminating network side in support of the TIP service and the TIR
service. Unless noted otherwise, these requirements are meant to apply
to responses where the presence of the P-Asserted-Identity and Privacy
header fields are allowed. These procedures apply regardless of whether
the originating or terminating parties subscribe to the TIP service or
the TIR service.

The terminating network shall include network asserted identity
information in responses where allowed by\
3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\]. For TIR subscribers:

\- The terminating user may include an indication that it wishes to have
the presentation of its identity information restricted, in any response
where allowed by 3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\].

\- If the terminating user has subscribed to the TIR service in the
permanent or temporary mode, then the network shall invoke the TIR
service for every incoming request.

NOTE 1: The above requirement needs appropriate configuration of the
initial filter criteria.

If the TIR service is not invoked, the network-provided identity shall
be considered to be presentation allowed.

NOTE 2: Annex B provides an example of an initial filter criterion that
that can be applied for the TIP/TIR service.

NOTE 3: It is assumed that the IBCF is responsible for stripping the
P-Asserted-Identity from the SIP header when interworking with untrusted
networks.

4.4 Syntax requirements
-----------------------

The syntax for the relevant header fields in the SIP requests and SIP
responses shall be as follows:

\- The syntax of the P-Asserted-Identity header field shall conform to
the requirements in 3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\] (IETF RFC 3325 \[6\] and
IETF RFC 3966 \[8\]).

\- The syntax of the Privacy header field shall conform to the
requirements in 3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\] (IETF RFC 3323 \[5\] and
IETF RFC 3325 \[6\]).

\- The Syntax of the option tag \"from-change\" shall conform to the
requirements in IETF RFC 4916 \[17\]

4.5 Signalling procedures
-------------------------

### 4.5.0 General

Configuration of supplementary services by the user should:

\- take place over the Ut interface using XCAP as enabling protocol as
described in 3GPP TS 24.623 \[15\]; or

\- use SIP based user configuration as described in
3GPP TS 24.238 \[19\].

NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, such as web-based
provisioning or pre-provisioning by the operator are outside the scope
of the present document, but are not precluded

The enhancements to the XML schema for use over the Ut interface are
described in subclause 4.9.

### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation

The TIP service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at
withdrawal.

The TIR service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at
withdrawal.

### 4.5.1A Registration/erasure

The TIP service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.

The TIR service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.

### 4.5.1B Interrogation

For interrogation of TIP and TIR, the mechanisms specified in
subclause 4.5.0 should be used.

### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation

#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the originating UE

A UE that supports the TIP service signalling procedures shall support
the receipt, in SIP responses to SIP requests initiating a dialog or for
standalone transactions, one or more P-Asserted-Identity headers, each
one containing a network-provided identity information of the
terminating user.

If no P-Asserted‑Identity header fields are present, but a Privacy
header field set to \"id\" was present, then the\
network-provided identity information was withheld due to presentation
restriction.

If neither P-Asserted-Identity header fields nor a Privacy header fields
set to \"id\" are present, then the network-provided identity
information was not available (due, for example, to interworking with
other networks).

Once a 2xx response is received, the P-Asserted-Identity header field of
the first 2xx response is used, e.g. when presenting the identity to the
user.

NOTE 1: Any P-Asserted-Identity received in a provisional response is
outside the scope of this service.

If the originating user is subscribed to the TIP services and wants to
receive changes of the terminating identity in the dialog the UE shall
add the option tag \"from-change\" to the Supported header field in the
initial request.

NOTE 2: This option tag is used to indicate that a UA supports changes
to URIs in From and To header fields during a dialog. Not setting this
indication shows that the UE is not supporting this procedure.

#### 4.5.2.2 Void

#### 4.5.2.3 Void

#### 4.5.2.4 Actions at the AS serving the originating UE

If the originating user is subscribed to the TIP service the AS shall
pass the option tag \"from-change\" in the Supported header field in the
initial request if received from the originating user.

If the originating user is not subscribed to the TIP service the AS
shall remove the option tag \"from-change\".

NOTE 1: If the terminating user requests privacy the S-CSCF or PCSCF
removes the P-Asserted-Identity header field as part of the basic
communication procedures defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 \[2\].

If an originating user does not subscribe to the TIP service, any
P-Asserted-Identity header fields or Privacy header fields included in
the SIP response shall be removed. As a network option, if the
originating user has an override category, the AS shall send the
P-Asserted-Identity headers and remove the Privacy header fields.

When the Privacy header field is set to \"id\", with the exception of
the cases listed above, the AS should not remove this Privacy header
entry.

NOTE 2: The priv-value \"id\" in the Privacy header will be used by the
originating UE to distinguish the request of TIR by the terminating
user.

#### 4.5.2.5 Void

#### 4.5.2.6 Void

#### 4.5.2.7 Void

#### 4.5.2.8 Void

#### 4.5.2.9 Actions at the AS serving the terminating UE

For a terminating user who subscribes to the TIR service in \"permanent
mode\", if a SIP response to a SIP request includes a Privacy header
field that is set to \"none\", the AS shall remove the \"none\" value
from the Privacy header field. The AS shall insert a Privacy header
field set to \"id\" if not already present.

For a terminating user who subscribes to the TIR service in \"permanent
mode\", if an INVITE request with a Supported header field including an
option tag \"from-change\" is received, the AS shall remove the option
tag \"from-change\".

For a terminating user who subscribes to the TIR service in \"temporary
mode\" with default set to \"restricted\", if a SIP response to a SIP
request does not include a Privacy header field, the AS shall insert a
Privacy header field set to \"id\".

For a terminating user who subscribes to the TIR service in \"temporary
mode\" with default set to \"not restricted\" normal procedures apply.

As a terminating network option, if the \"no screening\" special
arrangement does not exist with the terminating user and an UPDATE
request is received from the terminating user, then the AS may attempt
to match the information in the From header with the set of registered
public user identities for the served user. If no match is found, the AS
may change the value of the From header in the UPDATE request to the
public user identity of the served user.

#### 4.5.2.10 Void

#### 4.5.2.11 Void

#### 4.5.2.12 Actions at the terminating UE

A terminating UE receiving an initial request including a Supported
header field with the option tag \"from-change\" and supporting the
\"from-to\" change shall send within a provisional or final response the
Supported header with the option tag \"from-change\".

A terminating UE receiving an initial request including a Supported
header field with the option tag \"from-change\" may send a UPDATE
request with a updated from and to header according the rules of
IETF RFC 4916 \[17\].

The destination UE, if the terminating user wishes to override the
default setting of \"presentation not restricted\" of the TIR service in
temporary mode, shall include a Privacy header with privacy type of
\"id\" in any non-100 responses it sends upon receipt of a SIP request.

The destination UE , if the terminating user wishes to override the
default setting of \"presentation restricted\" of the TIR service in
temporary mode, shall include a Privacy header with privacy type of
\"none\" in any non-100 responses it sends upon receipt of a SIP
request.

NOTE: It is assumed that TIR subscribers support IETF RFC 3325 \[6\].

4.6 Interaction with other services
-----------------------------------

### 4.6.1 Communication session Hold (HOLD)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)

The TIR service shall normally take precedence over the TIP service. The
TIP service can take precedence over the TIR service when the
originating user has an override category. This is a national matter,
the operation of which is outside the scope of the present document.

### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)

The TIR service shall normally take precedence over the TIP service. The
TIP service can take precedence over the TIR service when the
originating user has an override category. This is a national matter,
the operation of which is outside the scope of the present document.

### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.6 Conference (CONF)

Conference controller: no impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the
operation of the other service.

Participants in a conference shall not receive the TIP service
information of participants being added to the conference.

### 4.6.7 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)

In case of the TIP service if the served (forwarding/deflecting) user
selects the option that the originating user is not notified of
communication diversion, then the originating user shall receive no
diversion notification. In addition, the originating user shall not
receive the terminating user\'s identity information when the
communication is answered, unless the originating user has override
capability.

In case of the TIP service if the served (forwarding/deflecting) user
selects the option that the originating user is notified, but without
the diverted‑to address, then the originating user shall not receive the
terminating user\'s identity information when the communication is
answered, unless the originating user has override capability.

If a diverted-to user subscribes to the TIR service \"permanent mode\",
then the diverted-to user\'s URI shall not be provided with the
notification that the communication has been diverted.

If a diverted-to user subscribes to the TIR service \"temporary mode\",
then the diverted‑to user\'s URI shall not be provided until negotiation
with the user has taken place and a positive indication from the user
has been received.

In each of the above situations, a originating user that subscribes to
the TIP service and who has override capability will not receive the
diverted-to user\'s number as part of the diverting notification
information, but can use the override capability in order to receive the
terminating identity information when the communication is answered.

### 4.6.8 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)

No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

### 4.6.9 Enhanced Calling Name (eCNAM)

No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

4.6.10 Multi-Device (MuD)
-------------------------

No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.

4.6.11 Multi-Identity (MiD)
---------------------------

No impact on the TIR service. The TIR service handles the Privacy header
field following the procedures in this specification.

No impact on the TIP service.

4.7 Interactions with other networks
------------------------------------

### 4.7.1 Void

### 4.7.2 Void

### 4.7.3 Void

4.8 Parameter values (timers)
-----------------------------

Void

4.9 Service configuration
-------------------------

### 4.9.0 General

Terminating Identity documents are sub‑trees of the *simservs* XML
document specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 \[15\]. As such, Terminating
Identity documents use the XCAP application usage in
3GPP TS 24.623 \[15\].

**Data semantics:** The semantics of the Terminating Identity XML
configuration document is specified in subclause 4.9.1.

**XML schema:** Implementations in compliance with the present document
shall implement the XML schema that minimally includes the XML Schema
defined in subclause 4.9.2 and the *simservs* XML schema specified in
subclause 6.3 of 3GPP TS 24.623 \[15\].

An instance of an Terminating Identity document is shown:

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<simservs xmlns=\"http://uri.etsi.org/ngn/params/xml/simservs/xcap\"
xmlns:xsi=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance\" \>

\<terminating-identity-presentation active=\"true\"/\>

\<terminating-identity-presentation-restriction active=\"true\"\>

\<default-behaviour\>presentation-restricted\</default-behaviour\>

\</terminating-identity-presentation-restriction\>

\</simservs\>

### 4.9.1 Data semantics

The TIP service can be activated/deactivated using the active attribute
of the \<terminating‑identity‑presentation\> service element.

The TIR service can be activated/deactivated using the active attribute
of the \<terminating‑identity‑presentation‑restriction\> service
element. Activating the TIR service this way activates the temporary
mode TIR service. When deactivated and not overruled by operator
settings, basic communication procedures apply.

The behaviour of the temporary mode TIR is configured with the optional
\<default‑behaviour\> element. There are two values that this element
can take:

**- Presentation-restricted:** configures the service to behave as
specified in subclause 4.5.2.9 for the case TIR service in \"temporary
mode\" with default \"restricted\".

**- Presentation-not-restricted:** configures the service to behave as
specified in subclause 4.5.2.9 for the case TIR service in \"temporary
mode\" with default \"not restricted\".

Authorization for manipulation of the active attribute of the
\<terminating‑identity‑presentation\> service element and of the
\<terminating‑identity‑presentation‑restriction\> service element is
subject to local policy. Unauthorized manipulation attempts are rejected
with an HTTP 409 (Conflict) response as defined in IETF RFC 4825 \[20\].

### 4.9.2 XML schema

\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?\>

\<xs:schema
xmlns:ss=\"http://uri.etsi.org/ngn/params/xml/simservs/xcap\"
xmlns:xs=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema\"
targetNamespace=\"http://uri.etsi.org/ngn/params/xml/simservs/xcap\"
elementFormDefault=\"qualified\" attributeFormDefault=\"unqualified\"\>

\<xs:element name=\"terminating-identity-presentation-restriction\"
substitutionGroup=\"ss:absService\"\>

\<xs:annotation\>

\<xs:documentation\>Terminating Identity presentation Restriction

\</xs:documentation\>

\</xs:annotation\>

\<xs:complexType\>

\<xs:complexContent\>

\<xs:extension base=\"ss:simservType\"\>

\<xs:sequence\>

\<xs:element name=\"default-behaviour\"
default=\"presentation-restricted\" minOccurs=\"0\"\>

\<xs:simpleType\>

\<xs:restriction base=\"xs:string\"\>

\<xs:enumeration value=\"presentation-restricted\"/\>

\<xs:enumeration value=\"presentation-not-restricted\"/\>

\</xs:restriction\>

\</xs:simpleType\>

\</xs:element\>

\</xs:sequence\>

\</xs:extension\>

\</xs:complexContent\>

\</xs:complexType\>

\</xs:element\>

\<xs:element name=\"terminating-identity-presentation\"
type=\"ss:simservType\" substitutionGroup=\"ss:absService\"\>

\<xs:annotation\>

\<xs:documentation\>Terminating Identity Presentation

\</xs:documentation\>

\</xs:annotation\>

\</xs:element\>

\</xs:schema\>

######## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows 

No signalling flows are provided.

######## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria

This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.

B.1 Originating IFC for TIP service
===================================

All outgoing initial SIP requests are forwarded to an Application Server
(AS) providing the TIR simulation service under the following
conditions:

\- The originating user does not subscribe to the TIP service and the AS
removes the P-Asserted‑Identity header fields and the Privacy header
field.

NOTE: Responses follow the same route as requests, so the responses will
also be routed via the AS.

B.2 Terminating IFC for TIR service
===================================

The terminating user has subscribed the TIR service, in either permanent
or temporary mode.

NOTE: Responses follow the same route as requests, so the responses will
also be routed via the AS.

######## Annex C (informative): Void 

######## Annex D (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | **TSG | **TSG | *     | **    | **Su  | **    | **    |
| ate** |  \#** | D     | *CR** | Rev** | bject | Old** | New** |
|       |       | oc.** |       |       | /Comm |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | P     |       | 2.4.1 |
| 07-08 |       |       |       |       | ublic |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | *     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | *ETSI |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 108   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 008** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | P     |       | 2.7.0 |
| 08-01 |       |       |       |       | ublic |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ETSI  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 108   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 008   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Conve |       | 2.7.1 |
| 08-01 |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | *     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | *3GPP |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 24.   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 508** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | T     |       | 2.7.2 |
| 08-01 |       |       |       |       | echni |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cally |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | iden  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tical |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | copy  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | *     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | *3GPP |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 24.   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 608** |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | basis |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | fu    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rther |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | velop |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ment. |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | I     |       | 2.8.0 |
| 08-02 |       |       |       |       | mplem |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ented |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 80100 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | The   | 2.8.0 | 2.9.0 |
| 08-04 |       |       |       |       | foll  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | owing |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CR's  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | corpo |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ditor |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ad    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | opted |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | their |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ntent |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | stru  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cture |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | stru  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cture |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81005 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81088 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81176 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81242 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81413 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | The   | 2.9.0 | 2     |
| 08-05 |       |       |       |       | foll  |       | .10.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | owing |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | CR's  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | were  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | corpo |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ditor |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ad    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | opted |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | their |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ntent |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | stru  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cture |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | stru  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cture |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81554 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81555 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81830 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81903 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C1-0  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 81912 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Edit  | 2     | 2     |
| 08-05 |       |       |       |       | orial | .10.0 | .10.1 |
|       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | anges |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | done  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | MCC   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-0  |       |       | CP-0  | 2     | 8.0.0 |
| 08-06 | T\#40 | 80329 |       |       | 80329 | .10.1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | was   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | T\#40 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 8.0.0 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | MCC   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    |       |       |       |       | Ve    | 8.0.0 | 8.0.1 |
| 08-06 |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 8.0.1 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eated |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | clude |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ttach |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | (.xml |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | .xsd  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | iles) |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-0  | 0001  | 1     | Allow | 8.0.1 | 8.1.0 |
| 08-09 | T\#41 | 80539 |       |       | SIP   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | based |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | user  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | mech  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | anism |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | onfig |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | uring |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | sup   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | pleme |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ntary |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ser   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | vices |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-0  | 0002  | 2     | I     | 8.1.0 | 8.2.0 |
| 08-12 | T\#42 | 80864 |       |       | ntera |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | SIP   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Ut    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | based |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | con   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | figur |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     |       |       |       | Edit  | 8.1.0 | 8.2.0 |
| 08-12 | T\#42 |       |       |       | orial |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | clean |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | up    |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-0  | 0007  |       | Corre | 8.2.0 | 8.3.0 |
| 09-12 | T\#46 | 90909 |       |       | ction |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | refe  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | sim   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | servs |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-0  | 0005  | 1     | R     | 8.3.0 | 9.0.0 |
| 09-12 | T\#46 | 90923 |       |       | estri |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | P-As  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | serte |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | d-Ide |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ntity |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-0  | 0006  |       | Ut    | 8.3.0 | 9.0.0 |
| 09-12 | T\#46 | 90923 |       |       | app   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | licab |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TIP   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-1  | 0011  | 1     | R     | 9.0.0 | 9.1.0 |
| 10-06 | T\#48 | 00343 |       |       | emove |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | EN    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | perta |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ining |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Pr    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ivacy |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | H     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | eader |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | field |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | han   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | dling |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-1  | 0012  | 1     | Error | 9.0.0 | 9.1.0 |
| 10-06 | T\#48 | 00358 |       |       | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | XCAP  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TI    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | P/TIR |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-1  | 0013  |       | R     | 9.1.0 | 1     |
| 10-12 | T\#50 | 00864 |       |       | emove |       | 0.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | AS    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | add   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | f     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rom-c |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-1  | 0016  | 1     | Cla   | 1     | 1     |
| 11-12 | T\#54 | 10881 |       |       | rific | 0.0.0 | 1.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | \"fro |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | m-cha |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | nge\" |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | usage |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TI    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | P/TIR |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-1  | 0017  |       | Corre | 1     | 1     |
| 12-03 | T\#55 | 20124 |       |       | cting | 1.0.0 | 1.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | refe  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-1  | 0018  |       | TIR   | 1     | 1     |
| 12-03 | T\#55 | 20124 |       |       | AS    | 1.0.0 | 1.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | proce |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | dures |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-1  | 0023  | 2     | Refe  | 1     | 1     |
| 12-09 | T\#57 | 20677 |       |       | rence | 1.1.0 | 1.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     | CP-1  | 0027  | 1     | F     | 1     | 1     |
| 13-06 | T\#60 | 30224 |       |       | rom-c | 1.2.0 | 1.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TIP,  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | TIR   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     |       |       |       | Up    | 1     | 1     |
| 14-09 | T\#65 |       |       |       | grade | 1.3.0 | 2.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | el-12 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | C     |       |       |       | Up    | 1     | 1     |
| 15-12 | T\#70 |       |       |       | grade | 2.0.0 | 3.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | el-13 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                                
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                                                   **New version**
  2017-03              CT-75                                                  Upgrade to Rel-14                                                                                                                                     14.0.0
  2017-12              CT-78         CP-173071   0029     2         B         Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) and Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem   15.0.0
  2019-12              CT-86         CP-193111   0030               B         Adding interactions with \"Multi-Device\" and \"Multi-Identity\" services                                                                             16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
