**Source: Dynastat**[^1]

**Title: Global Analysis Laboratory Report for Phase-1 of the 3GPP Audio
Codec Characterization Test for PSS-MMS-MBMS**

**Agenda item: 7**

Introduction
============

This document comprises the final report for the Phase I activities of
the Global Analysis Laboratory for the Characterization of the 3GPP
Audio Codecs. It summarizes the results and analyses from Phase 1 of the
Characterization Test. Phase 1 included four listening tests evaluating
the subjective performance of the two audio codecs at different bit
rates.

Organization of the Characterization Test
=========================================

The Characterization Test Plan \[1\] specified the subjective listening
tests to characterize the performance of the two audio codecs, *3GPP
Enhanced aacPlus* (EAAC+) and *Extended AMR-WB* (AMR-WB+), selected by
3GPP for standardization for PSS-MMS-MBMS. The test plan specified
subjective tests using the "Multiple Stimulus with Hidden Reference and
Anchors" or MUSHRA test method \[2\] for the subjective assessment of
intermediate audio quality. The MUSHRA experiments were subdivided into
two phases of testing:

-   Phase 1: Characterization of the two selected codecs across bit
    rates

    -   Experiment 1-1 -- Mono with bit rates 10kbps, â‰ˆ16kbps, and
        20kbps

    -   Experiment 1-2 -- Stereo with bit rates 14kbps, 21kbps, and
        28kbps

-   Phase 2: Characterization of the two selected codecs across error
    conditions (***tbd***)

For the Phase 1 series of tests, the test plan specified that each
experiment would be conducted by two Listening Labs (LL). The analyses
and results of the data from the Phase 1 tests are included in this
document.

Table 1 shows the test and reference conditions specified in test plan
for the two Phase 1 MUSHRA experiments. Experiment 1-1 involved the two
audio codecs in mono mode at three bit-rates, 10k, 16k, and 20kbps. For
the AMR-WB+ codec a low complexity version at 10kbps, designated
*10k(lc)*, was also included in Exp.1-1. Experiment 1-2 involved the two
audio codecs in stereo mode at three bit-rates, 14k, 21k, and 28kbps.
Both experiments also included three standard MUSHRA reference
conditions in the appropriate Mono and Stereo mode \-- 3.5k low-pass,
7.0k low-pass, and the hidden reference. Also included in Table 1 are
the actual values of bit-rate for the two codecs for each of the two
experiments. Dynastat (*Dyna*) and Ericsson (*Eric*) conducted the
Exp.1-1 listening tests. France Telecom R&D (*FTRD*) and Coding
Technologies (*CodT*) conducted the listening tests for Exp.1-2.

As specified in the test plan, each of the four MUSHRA tests involved
the same 12 audio items where the audio file was processed through each
test and reference condition. The audio items were selected to represent
three classes of Audio Content -- Music, Speech, and Mixed Music/Speech
Content. The Mixed Content class was further sub-classified into Speech
Over Music and Speech Between Music. Among the 12 test audio items, the
distribution of Audio Content was as follows:

-   Speech content -- 4 items

-   Music content -- 4 items

-   Mixed content -- 4 items

    -   Speech Over Music -- 2 items

    -   Speech Between Music -- 2 items

The test plan required each LL to deliver raw voting data for each of 15
expert listeners for each of the 12 test items. The GAL provided each LL
with an Excel spreadsheet for delivery of the raw voting data. Each LL
delivered raw MUSHRA voting data to the GAL for 15 expert listeners
within the deadline prescribed by the test plan.

##### **Table 1. Listening Labs and Test/Reference Conditions involved in the Phase 1 Experiments**

![](media/image1.wmf){width="4.444444444444445in"
height="2.5388888888888888in"}

Overall Results
===============

### Table 2 shows summary results for Exp. 1-1. The results include Means, Standard Deviations (SD) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI-95) for each test and reference condition and for each LL. The statistics shown in the table are based on 180 votes (15 subjects x 12 test items). Figure 1 illustrates the results from Table 2. 

##### **Table 2. Summary Results for Experiment 1-1 -- Mono / Bit-rate**

![](media/image2.wmf){width="6.1in" height="2.484027777777778in"}

![](media/image3.wmf){width="4.71875in" height="3.3652777777777776in"}
======================================================================

### **Fig.1. MUSHRA Scores for Exp. 1-1 (Mono) \-- Codec x Bit-rate by LL**

### Table 3 shows summary results for Exp. 1-2. As in Table 2, the statistics in Table 3 are based on 180 votes (15 subjects x 12 test items). Figure 2 illustrates the results shown in Table 3. 

##### **Table 3. Summary Results for Experiment 1-2 -- Stereo / Bit-rate**

![](media/image4.wmf){width="5.998611111111111in" height="2.23125in"}

![](media/image5.wmf){width="4.729861111111111in" height="3.3652777777777776in"}
================================================================================

### **Fig. 2. MUSHRA Scores for Exp. 1-2 (Stereo) \-- Codec x Bit-rate by LL**

Lab Dependency
==============

### One of the primary goals of the Phase 1 listening tests was to determine if there were significant difference among Listening Labs in the MUSHRA scores for the audio codecs, i.e., was Lab dependency a significant factor. An examination of Figs. 1 and 2 suggests that the results from the two LL's are highly correlated in both of the Phase 1 experiments, confirmed by the computed correlation coefficients, r~LL~ = 0.989 for Exp.1-1 and 0.988 for Exp.1-2. The overall difference in MUSHRA scores across LL's is relatively small for Exp.1-1 (Diff.=2.8, Mean**~Dyna~** = 66.9, Mean**~Eric~** = 64.1) and somewhat larger for Exp.1-2 (Diff.=6.8, Mean**~FTRD~** = 48.5, Mean**~CodT~** = 55.3). 

### 

### To test whether there was significant Lab Dependency for the MUSHRA results, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) was conducted for each of the two experiments, Mono and Stereo. For both experiments the ANOVA used only the six conditions representing the two codecs at the three bit rates. The ANOVA was a nested factorial design with fixed factors *Codecs* (AMR-WB+ vs. EAAC+) and *Bit-rates* (10k, 16k, 20k) and random factor *Votes* (15 subjects x 12 items). Furthermore, the *Votes* factor was partitioned into the fixed factors *Labs* and random factor *Votes within Labs*.[^2] Table 4 shows the results of the ANOVA for Exp.1-1. The critical effects to test *Lab Dependency* effects are the main effect for *Labs* and the interaction effects for *Codecs x Labs* and *Codecs x Bit-rates x Labs*. 

### 

### The only significant Lab Dependency effect in Table 4 (Exp.1-1, Mono) is for the main effect for *Labs*. The significant F-ratio for *Labs* (F = 9.61, p\<.05) indicates that the overall mean for the *Dyna* Lab (69.1) was significantly higher than the overall mean for the *Eric* Lab (65.5). Furthermore, the interaction effects, *Codecs x Labs* and *Codecs x Bit-rates x Labs*, are not significant indicating that the patterns of scores for the two codecs and for the two sets of codecs by bit-rates were equivalent across LL's. For Exp.1-1 there appears to be little evidence of a *Lab Dependency* effect \-- the difference in scores for the two LL's is a constant.

The other significant effects in the AVOVA are those for *Codecs* where
AMR-WB+ (74.08) scored significantly higher than EAAC+ (60.05) and for
*Bit-rate* where the scores for the three bit rates, averaged over
codecs and labs, were significantly different (50.51, 71.29, 80.60).

##### **Table 4. Results of Lab Dependency ANOVA for Exp. 1-1 (Mono/Bit-rate)**

![](media/image6.wmf){width="6.439583333333333in"
height="2.4166666666666665in"}

### Table 5 shows the results of the ANOVA for Exp.1-2. Again, the main effect for *Labs* in Table 5 is significant (F = 28.11, p\<.05) indicating that the mean for the *CodT* Lab (53.87) was significantly higher than the mean for the *FTRD* Lab (47.66). Furthermore, the interaction effect for *Codecs x Labs* is also significant (F = 5.86, p\<.05) indicating that the patterns of scores for the two codecs were significantly different across LL's. For Exp.1-2 there is evidence of a *Lab Dependency* effect. 

There is no significant effect for *Codecs* in Exp. 1-2 -- AMR-WB+
(50.71), EAAC+ (50.82). The other significant main effect in the AVOVA
for Exp. 1-2 is for *Bit-rate* where the scores for the three bit rates
were significantly different (38.08, 49.56, 64.26). The three
significant interactions, *Codecs x Bit-rates*, *Codecs x Labs*, and
*Bit-rates x Labs*, are illustrated in Figs. 3a, 3b, and 3c,
respectively.

**Table 5. Results of Lab Dependency ANOVA for Exp. 1-2
(Stereo/Bit-rate)**

![](media/image7.wmf){width="6.257638888888889in" height="2.3375in"}

![](media/image8.wmf){width="3.2465277777777777in"
height="2.113888888888889in"} ![](media/image9.wmf){width="3.225in"
height="2.109027777777778in"}

Fig.3a Interaction of Codecs x Bit Rates. Fig.3b Interaction of Codecs x
Labs.

![](media/image10.wmf){width="3.225in" height="2.109027777777778in"}

Fig.3c Interaction of Bit Rates x Labs.

Audio content
=============

### The twelve audio items involved in each experiment were chosen to represent three classes of Audio Content. Four of the items were classified as *Music* only, four as *Speech* only, and four as *Mixed* content -- speech and music. For the analyses and figures presented in this section, the effects of the nested factor *Labs* has been removed in order to evaluate the effects of *Audio Content* independent of the effects of Listening Labs, i.e., the unconfounded effects of Audio Context.

### Table 6 shows the ANOVA for Exp.1-1 for the effects of the factors *Codecs*, *Bit-rates*, and *Votes* with the fixed factor *Audio Content* nested within *Votes*. The significance of the effects for *Codecs*, *Bit-rates*, and *Codecs x Bit-rates* are the same as those already discussed in the previous section, but the main effect *Audio Content* and the interactions with *Audio Content* are of interest in this section. In Table 6 the main effect for *Audio Content* is significant, indicating that there was significant variation among the three classes of audio signals \-- Mixed (65.87), Music (70.23), and Speech (66.29). Furthermore, the interactions *Codecs x Audio Content* and *Bit Rates x Audio Content* are also significant. These interactions are illustrated in Figs. 4a and 4b, respectively.

**\
**

**Table 6. Results of Audio Content ANOVA for Exp. 1-1 (Mono/Bit-rate)**

![](media/image11.wmf){width="6.503472222222222in"
height="2.411111111111111in"}

![](media/image12.wmf){width="3.0972222222222223in"
height="2.0256944444444445in"} ![](media/image13.wmf){width="3.225in"
height="2.0208333333333335in"}

Fig.4a Interaction of Codecs x Audio Content. Fig.4b Interaction of
Bit-rates x Audio Content.

Table 7 shows the results of the Audio Content ANOVA for the three
codecs in Exp.1-1 operating at 10kbps, AMR-WB+, AMR-WB+(LC), and EAAC+.
The ANOVA shows that both of the main effects, *Codecs* and *Audio
Content* as well as the interaction *Codecs x Audio Content* are all
significant. Figure 5a illustrates the significant main effects and Fig.
5b the significant interaction.

**Table 7. Results of Codecs Audio Content ANOVA for Exp. 1-1
(Stereo/Bit-rate)**

![](media/image14.wmf){width="5.996527777777778in"
height="1.3631944444444444in"}

![](media/image15.wmf){width="2.845138888888889in"
height="2.227777777777778in"}
![](media/image16.wmf){width="3.463888888888889in"
height="2.227777777777778in"}

Fig.5a Main Effects for *Codecs* and *AC* Fig.5b Interaction of *Codecs
x Audio Content*.

### 

### Table 8 shows the ANOVA for Exp.1-2 for the effects of the factors *Codecs*, *Bit-rates*, and *Votes* with the fixed factor *Audio Content* nested within *Votes*. As in Table 6, the significance of the effects for *Codecs*, *Bit-rates*, and *Codecs x Bit-rates* are the same as those already discussed in the previous section. In Table 8 the main effect for *Audio Content* is not significant, indicating that there was no significant variation among the three classes of audio signals \-- Mixed (50.96), Music (49.69), and Speech (51.65). However, all three of the interactions involving Audio Content were significant (p\<.05) in the ANOVA. These significant interactions are illustrated in Fig. 6a (*Codecs x Audio Content*), Fig. 6b (*Bit-rates x Audio Content*), and Fig. 6c (*Codecs x Bit-rates x Audio Content*), respectively.

**Table 8. Results of Audio Content ANOVA for Exp. 1-2
(Stereo/Bit-rate)**

![](media/image17.wmf){width="6.566666666666666in"
height="2.4402777777777778in"}

![](media/image18.wmf){width="3.225in" height="2.113888888888889in"}
![](media/image19.wmf){width="3.225in" height="2.109027777777778in"}

Fig.6a Interaction of Codecs x Audio Content. Fig.6b Interaction of
Bit-rates x Audio Content.

![](media/image20.wmf){width="3.225in" height="2.109027777777778in"}

Fig.6c Interaction of Codecs x Bit-rates x Audio Content.

Conclusions
===========

### The conclusions listed below are based solely on the results and analyses derived from the Phase 1 MUSHRA tests and reported in this document. Except where explicitly stated, these conclusions apply only to the default AMR-WB+ codec since the low complexity version was only tested in one configuration \-- at the 10kbps bit-rate in the Mono experiment.

###  

-   Codecs

    -   Mono -- the performance of Extended AMR-WB was significantly
        better than 3GPP Enhanced aacPlus across the three bit-rates

    -   Stereo -- performance of the two codecs were equivalent across
        the three bit-rates

    -   Codecs x Bit-rate -- 3GPP Enhanced aacPlus showed a greater
        improvement in performance than Extended AMR-WB with increases
        in Bit-rate in both Mono and Stereo

-   Lab dependency

    -   Mono - the difference between labs was significant but constant
        across conditions \-- there were no significant interactions and
        therefore no Lab Dependency for Mono

    -   Stereo - there were statistically significant interactions of
        *Codecs x Labs* and *Bit-rates x Labs* but the trends were
        consistent -- there was a significant Lab Dependency effect

-   Audio Content

    -   Mono

        -   there were significant differences across classes of Audio
            Content

        -   Extended AMR-WB performed relatively better for Speech
            content, while 3GPP Enhanced aacPlus performed relatively
            better for Music content

        -   for the 10kbps bit-rate, the low complexity version of
            Extended AMR-WB performed better for Speech content than for
            Music, while 3GPP Enhanced aacPlus performed better for
            Music content than for Speech

    -   Stereo

        -   there were no significant differences across classes of
            Audio Content

        -   3GPP Enhanced aacPlus showed a clear advantage over Extended
            AMR-WB with increases in bit-rate for Music content;
            Extended AMR-WB showed a clear advantage over 3GPP Enhanced
            aacPlus with increases in bit-rate for Speech content.

References
==========

\[1\] S4-050188-PSS/MMS/MBMS Audio Codec Characterization Test Plan
Version 0.5, Feb.2005.

\[2\] EBU Technical recommendation: MUSHRA-EBU Method for Subjective
Listening Tests of Intermediate Audio Quality, Doc. B/AIM022, Oct.1999.

[^1]: ^1^ Alan Sharpley

    Dynastat, Inc Email: sharpley\@dynastat.com

    2704 Rio Grande Phone: +1-512-476-4797

    Austin, Texas, USA 78705 FAX: +1-472-2883

[^2]: The random factor *Votes* actually contains two nested factors,
    *Labs* and *Audio Content*. For the analyses presented in this
    section the systematic effects of *Audio Content* were removed from
    the *Votes* factor. With the effects of Audio Content removed, each
    of the 12 items for each of the 15 subjects in each test can be
    considered as independent votes for purposes of the ANOVA.
