+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 3GPP TS 38.124 V16.5.0 (2022-06) |                                  |
+==================================+==================================+
| Technical Specification          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 3rd Generation Partnership       |                                  |
| Project;                         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Technical Specification Group    |                                  |
| Radio Access Network;            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NR;                              |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| ElectroMagnetic Compatibility    |                                  |
| (EMC) requirements               |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| for mobile terminals and         |                                  |
| ancillary equipment              |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| (Release 16)                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ![](media/image1.jp              | ![](media/image2.p               |
| eg){width="1.3541666666666667in" | ng){width="1.7847222222222223in" |
| height="0.9305555555555556in"}   | height="1.0in"}                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| The present document has been    |                                  |
| developed within the 3rd         |                                  |
| Generation Partnership Project   |                                  |
| (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further   |                                  |
| elaborated for the purposes of   |                                  |
| 3GPP.\                           |                                  |
| The present document has not     |                                  |
| been subject to any approval     |                                  |
| process by the 3GPP              |                                  |
| Organizational Partners and      |                                  |
| shall not be implemented.\       |                                  |
| This Specification is provided   |                                  |
| for future development work      |                                  |
| within 3GPP only. The            |                                  |
| Organizational Partners accept   |                                  |
| no liability for any use of this |                                  |
| Specification.\                  |                                  |
| Specifications and Reports for   |                                  |
| implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^  |                                  |
| system should be obtained via    |                                  |
| the 3GPP Organizational          |                                  |
| Partners\' Publications Offices. |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                      |
+======================================================================+
| > ***3GPP***                                                         |
| >                                                                    |
| > Postal address                                                     |
| >                                                                    |
| > 3GPP support office address                                        |
| >                                                                    |
| > 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis                          |
| >                                                                    |
| > Valbonne - FRANCE                                                  |
| >                                                                    |
| > Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16                     |
| >                                                                    |
| > Internet                                                           |
| >                                                                    |
| > http://www.3gpp.org                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ***Copyright Notification***                                         |
|                                                                      |
| No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written            |
| permission.\                                                         |
| The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction   |
| in all media.                                                        |
|                                                                      |
| © 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, |
| TTA, TTC).                                                           |
|                                                                      |
| All rights reserved.                                                 |
|                                                                      |
| UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its      |
| members                                                              |
|                                                                      |
| 3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its      |
| Members and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\                     |
| LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its       |
| Members and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners                      |
|                                                                      |
| GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM            |
| Association                                                          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 5

1 Scope 7

2 References 7

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 9

3.1 Definitions 9

3.2 Symbols 9

3.3 Abbreviations 10

4 Test conditions 10

4.1 General 10

4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link 11

4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers 11

4.4 Receiver exclusion band 12

5 Performance assessment 12

5.1 General 12

5.2 Equipment which can provide a continuous communication link 12

5.3 Equipment which can only provide a discontinuous communication link
(packet data/transmission) 12

5.4 Equipment which does not provide a communication link 13

5.5 Conformance of ancillary equipment 13

5.6 Equipment classification 13

6 Performance criteria 13

6.1 General 13

6.2 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena 13

6.3 Performance criteria for transient phenomena 14

7 Applicability overview tables 14

7.1 EMC emissions 14

7.2 Immunity 15

8 Methods of measurement and limits for EMC emissions 15

8.1 Test configurations 15

8.2 Radiated emission 16

8.2.1 General 16

8.2.2 Definition 16

8.2.3 Test method 16

8.2.4 Limits 16

8.2.5 Interpretation of the measurement results 17

8.3 Conducted emission DC power input/output port 18

8.3.1 Definition 18

8.3.2 Test method 18

8.3.3 Limits 19

8.4 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port 19

8.4.1 Definition 19

8.4.2 Test method 19

8.4.3 Limits 19

8.5 Harmonic current emissions (AC mains input port) 19

8.6 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port) 19

9 Test methods and levels for immunity tests 19

9.1 Test configurations 19

9.2 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz to 6000 MHz) 20

9.2.1 Definition 20

9.2.2 Test method and level 20

9.2.3 Performance criteria 20

9.3 Electrostatic discharge 21

9.3.0 General 21

9.3.1 Definition 21

9.3.2 Test method and level 21

9.3.3 Performance criteria 21

9.4 Fast transients common mode 21

9.4.0 General 21

9.4.1 Definition 21

9.4.2 Test method and level 21

9.4.3 Performance criteria 22

9.5 RF common mode (0.15 MHz to 80 MHz) 22

9.5.0 General 22

9.5.1 Definition 22

9.5.2 Test method and level 22

9.5.3 Performance criteria 22

9.6 Transients and surges, vehicular environment 22

9.6.1 Definition 22

9.6.2 Test method and level 23

9.6.2.1 12 V DC powered equipment 23

9.6.2.2 24 V DC powered equipment 23

9.6.3 Performance criteria 23

9.7 Voltage dips and interruptions 23

9.7.0 General 23

9.7.1 Definition 23

9.7.2 Test method and level 23

9.7.3 Performance criteria 24

9.8 Surges, common and differential mode 24

9.8.1 Definition 24

9.8.2 Test method and level 24

9.8.3 Performance criteria 24

Annex A (informative): Change history 25

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document establishes the essential EMC requirements for
\"3^rd^ generation\" digital cellular mobile terminal equipment and
ancillary accessories in combination with a 3GPP NR user equipment (UE).

The equipment conforming to the requirements laid out in the present
document and used in its intended electromagnetic environment in
accordance with the manufacturer\'s instructions

\- shall not generate electromagnetic disturbances at a level which may
interfere with the intended operation of other equipment;

\- has an adequate level of intrinsic immunity to electromagnetic
disturbances to operate as intended;

The present document specifies the applicable EMC tests, methods of
measurement, frequency ranges, applicable limits and minimum performance
criteria for all types of NR UE(s) and their accessories. NR base
station equipment operating within network infrastructure is outside the
scope of the present document. However, the present document does cover
mobile and portable equipment that is intended to be operated in a fixed
location while connected to the AC mains. NR base station equipment
operating within network infrastructure is covered by the technical
specification TS 38.113 \[2\].

Requirements for the radiated emission from the enclosure port of
integral antenna equipment and ancillaries are included in the present
document. Technical specifications for conducted emissions from the
antenna connector are found in the 3GPP specifications for the radio
interface of NR UE, e.g. TS 38.101-1 \[3\], for the effective use of the
radio spectrum.

Requirements for the radiated emissions from the enclosure port and
ancillaries cover the following case:

\- UE equipment supporting operations in a frequency range for which
antenna connectors are available (i.e. for operations in FR1 as defined
in e.g. TS 38.101-1 \[3\] for the radio interface).

The immunity requirements are selected to ensure an adequate level of
compatibility for apparatus in residential, commercial, light industrial
and vehicular environments. The levels however, do not cover extreme
cases, which may occur in any location but with low probability of
occurrence.

Compliance of radio equipment to the requirements of the present
document does not signify compliance to any requirement related to the
use of the equipment (i.e. licensing requirements).

Compliance to the requirements of the present document does not signify
compliance to any safety requirement. However, any temporary or
permanent unsafe condition caused by EMC is considered as
non-compliance.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 38.113: \"NR; Base Station (BS) ElectroMagnetic
Compatibility (EMC)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \" NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission
and reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".

\[5\] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".

\[6\] Void

\[7\] Void.

\[8\] IEC 61000-3-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-2:
Limits - Limits for harmonic current emissions (equipment input current
≤ 16 A per phase)\".

\[9\] IEC 61000-3-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-3:
Limits - Limitation of voltage changes, voltage fluctuations and flicker
in low-voltage supply systems, for equipment with rated current ≤ 16 A
per phase and not subject to conditional connection\".

\[10\] IEC 61000-4-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-3:
Testing and measurement techniques - Radiated, radio-frequency
electromagnetic field immunity test\".

\[11\] IEC 61000-4-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-2:
Testing and measurement techniques - Electrostatic discharge immunity
test\".

\[12\] IEC 61000-4-4: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-4:
Testing and measurement techniques - Electrical fast transient/burst
immunity test - Basic EMC publication\".

\[13\] IEC 61000-4-6: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-6:
Testing and measurement techniques - Immunity to conducted disturbances
induced by radio frequency fields\".

\[14\] Void

\[15\] ISO 7637‑2: \"Road vehicles \-- Electrical disturbances from
conduction and coupling \-- Part 2: Electrical transient conduction
along supply lines only\".

\[16\] IEC 61000-4-11: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
4-11: Testing and measurement techniques - Voltage dips, short
interruptions, and voltage variations immunity test\".

\[17\] IEC 61000-4-5: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-5:
Testing and measurement techniques - Surge immunity test\".

\[18\] ITU-R Recommendation SM.1539 (2001): \"Variation of the boundary
between the out-of-band and spurious domains required for the
application of Recommendations ITU-R SM.1541 and ITU-R SM.329\".

\[19\] IEC 60050-161: \"International Electrotechnical Vocabulary -
Chapter 161: Electromagnetic compatibility\".

\[20\] IEC CISPR 32: \"Electromagnetic compatibility of multimedia
equipment - Emission requirements\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 1: Common test environment\".

\[22\] 3GPP 38.509: \"Special conformance testing functions for User
Equipment (UE)\".

\[23\] CISPR 16-4-2: \" Specification for radio disturbance and immunity
measuring apparatus and methods - Part 4-2: Uncertainties, statistics
and limit modelling - Measurement instrumentation uncertainty, Amendment
2\"

\[24\] ETSI TR 100 028-1: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio
spectrum Matters (ERM); Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio
equipment characteristics, part 1\"

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

***Ancillary equipment:** Equipment (apparatus), used in connection with
a user equipment (UE) is considered as an ancillary equipment
(apparatus) if:*

*- the equipment is intended for use in conjunction with a UE to provide
additional operational and/or control features to the UE, (e.g. to
extend control to another position or location); and*

*- the equipment cannot be used on a stand-alone basis to provide user
functions independently of a UE; and*

*- the UE to which it is connected, is capable of providing some
intended operation such as transmitting and/or receiving without the
ancillary equipment (i.e. it is not a sub‑unit of the main equipment
essential to the main equipment basic functions).*

***Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single NR RF
carrier with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or
downlink of a cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used
as a reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.*

***Enclosure port:** Physical boundary of the apparatus through which
electromagnetic fields may radiate or impinge. In the case of integral
antenna equipment, this port is inseparable from the antenna port.*

**Idle mode:** state of User Equipment (UE) when switched ON but with no
Radio Resource Control (RRC) connection.

***Integral antenna:** Antenna designed to be connected directly to the
equipment with or without the use of an external connector and
considered to be part of the equipment. An integral antenna may be
fitted internally or externally to the equipment.*

***Necessary bandwidth:** For a given class of emission, the width of
the frequency band which is just sufficient to ensure the transmission
of information at the rate and with the quality required under specified
conditions.*

***Out of band emissions:** Emission on a frequency or frequencies
immediately outside the necessary bandwidth, which results from, the
modulation process, but excluding spurious emissions.*

***Spurious emission:** Emission on a frequency, or frequencies, which
are outside the necessary bandwidth and the level of which may be
reduced without affecting the corresponding transmission of information.
Spurious emissions include harmonic emissions, parasitic emissions,
intermodulation products and frequency conversion products but exclude
out‑of‑band emissions.*

**Traffic mode:** state of User Equipment (UE) when switched ON and with
Radio Resource Control (RRC) connection established.

***Transient phenomena:** Pertaining to or designating a phenomenon or a
quantity which varies between two consecutive steady states during a
time interval short compared with the time-scale of interest (IEC
60050-161 \[19\])*

***User equipment:** is a \"Mobile Station\" (MS) which is an entity
capable of accessing a set of NR services via one or more radio
interfaces. This entity may be stationary or in motion within the NR
service area while accessing the NR services, and may simultaneously
serve one or more users.*

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth

F~OOB~ The boundary between the NR out of band emission and spurious
emission domains

N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of
resource blocks

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

AC Alternating Current

CA Carrier Aggregation

DC Direct Current

DRX Discontinuous Reception

DTX Discontinuous Transmission

ESD Electrostatic Discharge

EUT Equipment Under Test

FAC Fully Anechoic Chamber

FR Frequency Range

HCP Horizontal Coupling Plane

LISN Line Impedance Stabilising Networks

LR Location Registration

NR New Radio

RF Radio Frequency

RMS Root Mean Square (value)

RRC *Radio Resource Control*

UE User Equipment

4 Test conditions
=================

4.1 General
-----------

The equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions according to
the relevant product and basic standards. If these conditions are not
specified then the manufacturers declared range of humidity, temperature
and supply voltage shall be used. The test conditions shall be recorded
in the test report.

Whenever the Equipment under test (EUT) is provided with a detachable
antenna, the EUT shall be tested with the antenna fitted in a manner
typical of normal intended use, unless specified otherwise.

Where the equipment incorporates an external 50 Ω RF antenna connector
that is normally connected via a coaxial cable, then the wanted signal
to establish a communication link also uses a coaxial cable.

Where the equipment has an external 50 Ω RF antenna connector that is
not normally connected via a coaxial cable or where the equipment has no
external 50 Ω RF connector (i.e., integral antenna equipment), then the
wanted signal, to establish a communication link, shall be delivered
from the equipment to an antenna located within the test environment.

Requirements throughout the RF specifications are in many cases defined
separately for different frequency ranges (FR). The frequency ranges in
which a UE equipment (NR) can operate according to this version of the
specification are identified as described in table 4.1-1. The test
conditions may be different for operations in FR1 and FR2.

Table 4.1-1: Definition of frequency ranges

  Frequency range designation   Corresponding frequency range
  ----------------------------- -------------------------------
  FR1                           410 MHz -- 7125 MHz
  FR2                           24250 MHz -- 52600 MHz

4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link
------------------------------------------------------

For transmitters with an integral antenna, the wanted RF output signal
to establish a communication link shall be delivered from the EUT to an
antenna located within the test environment. This antenna shall be
connected to the external measuring equipment by a coaxial cable.

For transmitters with an antenna connector, the wanted RF output signal
to establish a communication link shall be delivered from the antenna
connector to the external measuring equipment by a shielded transmission
line, such as a coaxial cable. Adequate measures shall be taken to
minimize the effect of unwanted common mode currents on the external
conductor of the transmission line at the point of entry to the
transmitter.

The wanted RF input signal nominal frequency shall be selected by
setting the NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number to an appropriate
number.

For UE equipment only support operations in FR1 a communication link
shall be set up with a suitable base station simulator (hereafter called
\"the test system\"). The test system shall be located outside of the
test environment.

When the EUT is required to be in the traffic mode, a call is set up
according to the generic call set-up procedure and the following
conditions shall be met:

\- Set and send continuously positive TPC commands to the UE;

\- The DTX shall be disabled;

\- Uplink power control shall be enabled;

\- transmitting and/or receiving (UL/DL) bit rate for reference test
channel shall be the reference measurement channel as specified in annex
A in TS 38.101-1 \[3\] with parameters specified in table 7.3.2-1 and
table 7.3.2-2 in TS 38.101-1 \[3\];

\- Adequate measures shall be taken to avoid the effect of the unwanted
signal on the measuring equipment;

\- For immunity testing, the wanted input signal level shall be set to
40 dB above the reference sensitivity level to provide a stable
communication link. The reference sensitivity level is defined
in TS 38.101-1 \[3\];

\- For emission testing, the wanted input signal level shall be no more
than 15 dB above the reference sensitivity level, such that the
performance of the measuring receiver is not limited by strong signal
effects.

See TS 38.508-1 \[21\] and TS 38.509 \[22\] for details regarding
generic call set-up procedure and throughput test loop scenarios.

\- UE shall be camped on a cell

\- UE shall perform Location Registration (LR) before the test, but not
during the test;

\- UE´s neighbour cell list shall be empty;

\- Paging repetition period and DRX cycle shall be set to minimum
(shortest possible time interval).

For immunity tests, clause 4.3 applies.

4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers
--------------------------------------

Responses on receivers or duplex transceivers occurring during the test
at discrete frequencies, which are narrow band responses (spurious
responses), are identified by the following method:

\- If during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside
the specified tolerances, it is necessary to establish whether the
deviation is due to an unwanted effect on the receiver of the UE or on
the test system (narrow band response) or to a wide band (EMC)
phenomenon. Therefore, the test shall be repeated with the unwanted
signal frequency increased or decreased by BW~Channel~ MHz, where
BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth as defined in TS 38.101-1 \[3\];

\- If the deviation does not disappear, the procedure is repeated the
unwanted signal frequency increased or decreased by 2 x BW~Channel~ MHz,
where BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth as defined in TS 38.101-1
\[3\];

\- If the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or
decreased frequency, the phenomenon is considered wide band and
therefore an EMC problem and the equipment fails the test.

Narrow band responses are disregarded.

The procedure above does not apply to conducted immunity tests in the
frequency range 150 kHz to 80 MHz.

4.4 Receiver exclusion band
---------------------------

The receiver exclusion band for terminals extends from the lower
frequency of the allocated receiver band minus 85 MHz to the upper
frequency of the allocated receiver band plus 85 MHz. The *receiver
exclusion band* for UE is the frequency range over which no tests of
radiated immunity of a receiver are made. The exclusions bands are as
set out below:

F~DL,low~ -- 85 \< f \< F~DL,high~ + 85 (MHz)

Where values of F~DL,low~ and F~DL,high~ are defined for each *operating
band* in TS 38.101-1 \[3\], clause 5.2.

5 Performance assessment
========================

5.1 General
-----------

The manufacturer shall at the time of submission of the equipment for
test, supply the following information to be recorded in the test
report:

\- The primary functions of the radio equipment to be tested during and
after the EMC testing;

\- If applicable, the method to be used to verify that a communications
link is established and maintained;

\- The intended functions of the radio equipment which shall be in
accordance with the documentation accompanying the equipment;

\- The user-control functions and stored data that are required for
normal operation and the method to be used to assess whether these have
been lost after EMC stress;

\- The ancillary equipment to be combined with the radio equipment for
testing (where applicable);

\- Information about ancillary equipment intended to be used with the
radio equipment;

\- An exhaustive list of ports, classified as either power or
signal/control. Power ports shall further be classified as AC or DC
power;

\- The humidity range, temperature, and supply voltage for all equipment
submitted for testing.

5.2 Equipment which can provide a continuous communication link
---------------------------------------------------------------

The test arrangement and signals, given in clause 4, apply to radio
equipment or a combination of radio equipment and ancillary equipment
that permits the establishment of a communication link. The assessment
of equipment performance shall be based on data transfer according to
the criteria in clause 6.

5.3 Equipment which can only provide a discontinuous communication link (packet data/transmission)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the equipment does not permit or allow for a communications link to
be established and maintained during the EMC tests (as in clause 5.2),
the manufacturer shall define the performance assessment. The
manufacturer shall provide the method of observing the degradation of
performance of the equipment.

5.4 Equipment which does not provide a communication link
---------------------------------------------------------

If the equipment is of a specialised nature which does not permit a
communication link to be established, the manufacturer shall define the
method of test to determine the acceptable level of performance or
degradation of performance during and/or after the test. The
manufacturer shall provide the method of observing the degradation of
performance of the equipment.

The performance assessment carried out shall be simple, but at the same
time give adequate proof that the primary functions of the equipment are
operational.

5.5 Conformance of ancillary equipment
--------------------------------------

Ancillary equipment shall be tested with it connected to a UE in which
case compliance shall be demonstrated to the appropriate clauses of the
present document.

5.6 Equipment classification
----------------------------

Equipment is classified according to the source of power:

\- If power is derived from a fixed AC or DC supply network installation
the equipment is classified \"for fixed use\";

\- If power is derived from a vehicular power supply (car battery +
alternator) the equipment is classified \"for vehicular use\";

\- If power is derived from an integral battery the equipment is
classified \"for portable use\".

6 Performance criteria
======================

6.1 General
-----------

The maintenance of a communications link shall be assessed by using an
indicator, which may be part of the test system or the equipment under
test.

Specifically the equipment shall meet the minimum performance criteria
as specified in the following clauses as appropriate.

Portable equipment intended for use whilst powered by the main battery
of a vehicle shall additionally fulfil the applicable requirements set
out by the present document for mobile equipment for vehicular use.

Portable equipment intended for use whilst powered by AC mains shall
additionally fulfil the applicable requirements set out by the present
document for equipment for fixed use.

If an equipment is of such nature, that the performance criteria
described in the following clauses are not appropriate, then the
manufacturer shall declare, for inclusion in the test report, his own
specification for an acceptable level of performance or degradation of
performance during and/or after testing, as required by the present
document.

The performance criteria specified by the manufacturer shall give the
same degree of immunity protection as called for in the following
clauses.

In addition, the test shall also be performed in idle mode to ensure the
transmitter does not unintentionally operate.

The requirements apply to all types of NR for the UE.

6.2 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena
-------------------------------------------------

A communication link shall be established at the start of the test, and
maintained during the test, clauses 4.1 and 4.2.

In the data transfer mode, the performance criteria shall be that the
throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in annex A in TS 38.101-1 \[3\] or TS
38.101-2 \[4\], with parameters specified in clause 7.3.2 in TS 38.101-1
\[3\] or TS 38.101-2 \[4\] during the test sequence.

At the conclusion of the test, the EUT shall operate as intended with no
loss of user control functions or stored data, and the communication
link shall have been maintained.

In addition to confirming the above performance in traffic mode, the
test shall be performed in idle mode, and the transmitter shall not
unintentionally operate.

6.3 Performance criteria for transient phenomena
------------------------------------------------

A communications link shall be established at the start of the test,
clauses 4.1 and 4.2.

At the conclusion of each exposure the EUT shall operate with no user
noticeable loss of the communication link.

At the conclusion of the total test comprising the series of individual
exposures, the EUT shall operate as intended with no loss of user
control functions or stored data, as declared by the manufacturer, and
the communication link shall have been maintained.

In addition to confirming the above performance in traffic mode, the
test shall also be performed in idle mode, and the transmitter shall not
unintentionally operate.

7 Applicability overview tables
===============================

7.1 EMC emissions
-----------------

Table 7.1-1: Emission applicability

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | **Eq    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | uipment |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | test    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | requir  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ement** |         |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| **Pheno | *       | **Eq    | **Eq    | **Eq    | **Re    | **Re    |
| menon** | *Applic | uipment | uipment | uipment | ference | ference |
|         | ation** | co      | co      | powered | clause  | sta     |
|         |         | nnected | nnected | by      | in the  | ndard** |
|         |         | to      | to      | i       | present |         |
|         |         | fixed   | ve      | ntegral | doc     |         |
|         |         | AC or   | hicular | ba      | ument** |         |
|         |         | DC      | DC      | ttery** |         |         |
|         |         | power   | sup     |         |         |         |
|         |         | i       | plies** |         |         |         |
|         |         | nstalla |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | tions** |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **R     | En      | app     | app     | app     | 8.2     | ITU-R   |
| adiated | closure | licable | licable | licable |         | SM.329  |
| emi     |         |         |         |         |         | \[5\]   |
| ssion** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | TS      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | 3       |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | 8.101-1 |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | \[3\]   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **Co    | DC      | app     | app     | not     | 8.3     | CISPR   |
| nducted | power   | licable | licable | app     |         | 32      |
| emi     | input   |         |         | licable |         | \[20\]  |
| ssion** | /output |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | port    |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **Co    | AC      | app     | not     | not     | 8.4     | CISPR   |
| nducted | mains   | licable | app     | app     |         | 32      |
| emi     | input   |         | licable | licable |         | \[20\]  |
| ssion** | /output |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | port    |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **H     | AC      | app     | not     | not     | 8.5     | IEC     |
| armonic | mains   | licable | app     | app     |         | 61      |
| current | input   |         | licable | licable |         | 000-3-2 |
| emis    | port    |         |         |         |         | \[8\]   |
| sions** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **      | AC      | app     | not     | not     | 8.6     | IEC     |
| Voltage | mains   | licable | app     | app     |         | 61      |
| fluct   | input   |         | licable | licable |         | 000-3-3 |
| uations | port    |         |         |         |         | \[9\]   |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fl      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| icker** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

For UE equipment operating in FR1 (table 4.1-1), the radiated emission
applies to the enclosure port with antenna ports available.

For UE equipment supporting operations in FR2 (table 4.1-1) the
enclosure port is inseparable from the antenna port.

7.2 Immunity
------------

Table 7.2-1: Immunity applicability

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | **Eq    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | uipment |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | test    |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | requir  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ement** |         |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| **Pheno | *       | **Eq    | **Eq    | **Eq    | **Re    | **Re    |
| menon** | *Applic | uipment | uipment | uipment | ference | ference |
|         | ation** | co      | co      | powered | clause  | sta     |
|         |         | nnected | nnected | by      | in the  | ndard** |
|         |         | to      | to      | i       | present |         |
|         |         | fixed   | ve      | ntegral | doc     |         |
|         |         | AC or   | hicular | ba      | ument** |         |
|         |         | DC      | DC      | ttery** |         |         |
|         |         | power   | sup     |         |         |         |
|         |         | i       | plies** |         |         |         |
|         |         | nstalla |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | tions** |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **RF    | En      | app     | app     | app     | 9.2     | IEC     |
| el      | closure | licable | licable | licable |         | 61      |
| ectro­m |         |         |         |         |         | 000‑4‑3 |
| agnetic |         |         |         |         |         | \[10\]  |
| field   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (80 MHz |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to 6000 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MHz)**  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| *       | En      | app     | app     | app     | 9.3     | IEC     |
| *Electr | closure | licable | licable | licable |         | 61      |
| ostatic |         |         |         |         |         | 000‑4‑2 |
| disc    |         |         |         |         |         | \[11\]  |
| harge** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **Fast  | Signal  | app     | not     | not     | 9.4     | IEC     |
| tra     | and     | licable | app     | app     |         | 61      |
| nsients | control |         | licable | licable |         | 000‑4‑4 |
| common  | ports,  |         |         |         |         | \[12\]  |
| mode**  | DC and  |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | AC      |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | input   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | ports   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **RF    | Signal  | app     | app     | app     | 9.5     | IEC     |
| common  | and     | licable | licable | licable |         | 61      |
| mode**  | control |         |         |         |         | 000‑4‑6 |
|         | ports,  |         |         |         |         | \[13\]  |
| **0.15  | DC and  |         |         |         |         |         |
| MHz to  | AC      |         |         |         |         |         |
| 80      | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
| MHz**   | input   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | ports   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **Tra   | DC      | not     | app     | not     | 9.6     | ISO     |
| nsients | power   | app     | licable | app     |         | 7637    |
| and     | input   | licable |         | licable |         | Part 1  |
| surges, | ports   |         |         |         |         | \[14\]  |
| ve      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| hicular |         |         |         |         |         | and     |
| enviro  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nment** |         |         |         |         |         | ISO     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | 7637    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Part 2  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | \[15\]  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **      | AC      | app     | not     | not     | 9.7     | IEC     |
| Voltage | mains   | licable | app     | app     |         | 610     |
| dips    | power   |         | licable | licable |         | 00‑4‑11 |
| and     | input   |         |         |         |         | \[16\]  |
| i       | ports   |         |         |         |         |         |
| nterrup |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tions** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **      | DC and  | app     | not     | not     | 9.8     | IEC     |
| Surges, | AC      | licable | app     | app     |         | 61      |
| common  | power   |         | licable | licable |         | 000‑4‑5 |
| and     | input   |         |         |         |         | \[17\]  |
| diffe   | ports   |         |         |         |         |         |
| rential |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mode**  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

8 Methods of measurement and limits for EMC emissions
=====================================================

8.1 Test configurations
-----------------------

This clause defines the configurations for emission tests as follows:

\- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions;

\- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;

\- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to
ancillary equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment
while connected to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment
necessary to exercise the ports;

\- if the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient
number shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to
ensure that all the different types of termination are tested;

\- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall
be recorded in the test report;

\- ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to
an ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly
terminated to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary
equipment, Radio Frequency (RF) input/output ports shall be correctly
terminated;

\- ports that are not connected to cables during normal operation, e.g.
service connectors, programming connectors; temporary connectors etc.
shall not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC testing.
Where cables have to be connected to these ports, or interconnecting
cables have to be extended in length in order to exercise the EUT,
precautions shall be taken to ensure that the evaluation of the EUT is
not affected by the addition or extension of these cables;

\- emission tests shall be performed in two modes of operation:

\- with a communication link established (traffic mode); and

\- without a communication link established (idle mode).

8.2 Radiated emission
---------------------

### 8.2.1 General

This test is applicable to radio communications equipment and ancillary
equipment.

This test shall be performed on the radio equipment and/or a
representative configuration of the ancillary equipment.

### 8.2.2 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary
equipment to limit unwanted emissions from the enclosure port.

For UE equipment supporting operations in FR2 (table 4.1-1) with
integral antennas only (no antenna connectors available), the EMC
radiated emissions cannot be distinguished between the intended
emissions nor to any spurious emissions related to these intentional
transmissions:

\- This test is applicable to UE equipment without integral antennas,
i.e. FR1.

\- For UE equipment with integral antennas only, i.e. FR2, the radiated
emission is covered by radiated spurious emission requirement in
TS 38.101-2 \[4\].

### 8.2.3 Test method

Whenever possible the site shall be a fully anechoic chamber (FAC)
simulating the free-space conditions. EUT shall be placed on a
non-conducting support. Mean power of any spurious components shall be
detected by the test antenna and measuring receiver (e.g. a spectrum
analyser).

At each frequency at which a component is detected, the EUT shall be
rotated to obtain maximum response, and the effective radiated power
(e.r.p.) of that component determined by a substitution measurement,
which shall be the reference method. The measurement shall be repeated
with the test antenna in the orthogonal polarization plane.

NOTE: Effective radiated power e.r.p. refers to the radiation of a half
wave tuned dipole instead of an isotropic antenna. There is a constant
difference of 2.15 dB between e.i.r.p. and e.r.p.

e.r.p. (dBm) = e.i.r.p. (dBm) − 2.15 , Ref. ITU-R SM. 329 annex 1 \[5\]

Measurements are made with a tuned dipole antenna or a reference antenna
with a known gain referenced to an isotropic antenna. Unless otherwise
stated, all measurements are done as mean power (RMS).

### 8.2.4 Limits

Unless otherwise stated, the radiated spurious emission limits apply for
the frequency ranges that are more than F~OOB~ (MHz) in table 8.2.4-0
from the edge of the channel bandwidth. The radiated spurious emission
limits in table 8.2.4-1 for traffic mode and in table 8.2.4.-2 for idle
mode, apply for all transmitter band configurations (N~RB~) and channel
bandwidths.

The references for these requirements are ITU-R SM 329 \[5\], SM.1539
\[18\] and TS 38.101-1 \[3\] for FR1.

The frequency boundary and reference bandwidths for the detailed
transitions of the limits between the requirements for out of band
emissions and spurious emissions are based on ITU-R SM 329 \[5\].

These requirements are only applicable for frequencies in the spurious
domain. The limits are specified in table 8.2.4-1 for traffic mode and
in table 8.2.4.-2 for idle mode for UE equipment supporting operations
in FR1 only.

Table 8.2.4-0: Boundary between NR out of band and general spurious
emission domain

  Channel bandwidth   OOB boundary F~OOB~ (MHz)
  ------------------- ---------------------------
  BW~Channel~         BW**~Channel~** + 5

Table 8.2.4-1: Radiated spurious emissions requirements for UE equipment
supporting operations in FR1, traffic mode

+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Frequency range   | Maximum level     | Measurement       | Notes |
|                   | (dBm)             | bandwidth         |       |
+===================+===================+===================+=======+
| 30 MHz ≤ f \<     | -36               | 100 kHz           |       |
| 1000 MHz          |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| 1 GHz ≤ f \<      | -30               | 1 MHz             | 4     |
| 12.75 GHz         |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                   | -25               | 1 MHz             | 3     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| 12.75 GHz ≤ f \<  | -30               | 1 MHz             | 1     |
| 5^th^ harmonic of |                   |                   |       |
| the upper         |                   |                   |       |
| frequency edge of |                   |                   |       |
| the UL operating  |                   |                   |       |
| band in GHz       |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| 12.75 GHz \< f \< | -30               | 1 MHz             | 2     |
| 26 GHz            |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: Applies   |                   |                   |       |
| for Band that the |                   |                   |       |
| upper frequency   |                   |                   |       |
| edge of the UL    |                   |                   |       |
| Band more than    |                   |                   |       |
| 2.69 GHz.         |                   |                   |       |
|                   |                   |                   |       |
| NOTE 2: Applies   |                   |                   |       |
| for Band that the |                   |                   |       |
| upper frequency   |                   |                   |       |
| edge of the UL    |                   |                   |       |
| Band more than    |                   |                   |       |
| 5.2 GHz.          |                   |                   |       |
|                   |                   |                   |       |
| NOTE 3: As        |                   |                   |       |
| specified in TS   |                   |                   |       |
| 38.101-1 \[3\]:   |                   |                   |       |
| Applies for Band  |                   |                   |       |
| n41, CA           |                   |                   |       |
| configurations    |                   |                   |       |
| including Band    |                   |                   |       |
| n41, and EN-DC    |                   |                   |       |
| configurations    |                   |                   |       |
| that include n41  |                   |                   |       |
| specified in      |                   |                   |       |
| clause 5.2B of TS |                   |                   |       |
| 38.101-3 \[3\]    |                   |                   |       |
| when NS\_04 is    |                   |                   |       |
| signalled.        |                   |                   |       |
|                   |                   |                   |       |
| NOTE 4: As        |                   |                   |       |
| specified in TS   |                   |                   |       |
| 38.101-1 \[3\]:   |                   |                   |       |
| Does not apply    |                   |                   |       |
| for Band n41, CA  |                   |                   |       |
| configurations    |                   |                   |       |
| including Band    |                   |                   |       |
| n41, and EN-DC    |                   |                   |       |
| configurations    |                   |                   |       |
| that include n41  |                   |                   |       |
| specified in      |                   |                   |       |
| clause 5.2B of TS |                   |                   |       |
| 38.101-3 \[3\]    |                   |                   |       |
| when NS\_04 is    |                   |                   |       |
| signalled.        |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+

NOTE: Void.

Table 8.2.4-2: Radiated spurious emissions requirements for UE equipment
supporting operations in FR1, idle mode

+----------------------+---------------------+-------------+------+
| Frequency range      | Maximum level (dBm) | Measurement | NOTE |
|                      |                     |             |      |
|                      |                     | bandwidth   |      |
+======================+=====================+=============+======+
| 30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 GHz  | -57                 | 100 kHz     |      |
+----------------------+---------------------+-------------+------+
| 1 GHz ≤ f ≤ 12.75    | -47                 | 1 MHz       |      |
| GHz                  |                     |             |      |
+----------------------+---------------------+-------------+------+
| 12.75 GHz ≤ f ≤      | -47                 | 1 MHz       | 2    |
| 5^th^ harmonic of    |                     |             |      |
| the upper frequency  |                     |             |      |
| edge of the DL       |                     |             |      |
| operating band in    |                     |             |      |
| GHz                  |                     |             |      |
+----------------------+---------------------+-------------+------+
| 12.75 GHz -- 26 GHz  | -47                 | 1 MHz       | 3    |
+----------------------+---------------------+-------------+------+
| NOTE 1: Unused PDCCH |                     |             |      |
| resources are padded |                     |             |      |
| with resource        |                     |             |      |
| element groups with  |                     |             |      |
| power level given by |                     |             |      |
| PDCCH as defined in  |                     |             |      |
| TS 38.101-1 \[3\],   |                     |             |      |
| annex C.3.1.         |                     |             |      |
|                      |                     |             |      |
| NOTE 2: Applies for  |                     |             |      |
| Band that the upper  |                     |             |      |
| frequency edge of    |                     |             |      |
| the DL Band more     |                     |             |      |
| than 2.69 GHz.       |                     |             |      |
|                      |                     |             |      |
| NOTE 3: Applies for  |                     |             |      |
| Band that the upper  |                     |             |      |
| frequency edge of    |                     |             |      |
| the DL Band more     |                     |             |      |
| than 5.2 GHz.        |                     |             |      |
+----------------------+---------------------+-------------+------+

### 8.2.5 Interpretation of the measurement results

The interpretation of the results recorded in a test report for the
radiated emission measurements described in the present document shall
be as follows:

\- the measured value related to the corresponding limit will be used to
decide whether an equipment meets the requirements of the present
document;

\- the value of the measurement uncertainty for the measurement of each
parameter shall be included in the test report;

\- the recorded value of the measurement uncertainty shall be, for each
measurement, equal to or lower than the figure in table 8.2.5-1.

Table 8.2.5-1 specifies the Maximum measurement uncertainty of the Test
System. The Test System shall enable the equipment under test to be
measured with an uncertainty not exceeding the specified values. All
tolerances and uncertainties are absolute values, and are valid for a
confidence level of 95 %, unless otherwise stated.

A confidence level of 95% is the measurement uncertainty tolerance
interval for a specific measurement that contains 95% of the performance
of a population of test equipment.

Table 8.2.5-1: Maximum measurement uncertainty

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  **Parameter**                                                                                                                                                                               **Maximum MU (NOTE)**
  Effective radiated RF power between 30 MHz and 180 MHz                                                                                                                                      ±6 dB
  Effective radiated RF power between 180 MHz and 12.75 GHz                                                                                                                                   ±3 dB
  Effective radiated RF power between 12.75 GHz and 26 GHz                                                                                                                                    ±6 dB
  NOTE: These MU values estimates and are not based on the MU budget calculations. For more background on MU derivation analyses refer to CISPR 16-4-2 \[23\] and ETSI TR 100 028-1 \[24\].   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the Test System for a test is known to have a measurement
uncertainty greater than that specified in table 8.2.5-1, this equipment
can still be used, provided that an adjustment is made follows:\
Any additional uncertainty in the Test System over and above that
specified in table 8.2.5-1 is used to tighten the Test Requirements -
making the test harder to pass. This procedure will ensure that a Test
System not compliant with table 8.2.5-1 does not increase the
probability of passing an EUT that would otherwise have failed a test if
a Test System compliant with table 8.2.5-1 had been used.

8.3 Conducted emission DC power input/output port
-------------------------------------------------

This test is applicable to all equipment, which may have DC cables
longer than 3 m.

If the DC power cable of the UE and/or the ancillary equipment is
intended to be less than 3 m in length, and intended only for direct
connection to a dedicated AC to DC power supply, then the measurement
shall be performed only on the AC power input of that power supply as
specified in clause 8.4.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
radio equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of
radio and ancillary equipment.

### 8.3.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary
equipment to limit internal noise from the DC power input/output ports.

### 8.3.2 Test method

The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 32 \[20\], and the
Line Impedance Stabilising Networks (LISN) shall be connected to a DC
power source.

In the case of DC output ports, the ports shall be connected via a LISN
to a load drawing the rated current of the source.

A measuring receiver shall be connected to each LISN measurement port in
turn and the conducted emission recorded. The LISN measurement ports not
being used for measurement shall be terminated with a 50 W load.

The equipment shall be installed with a ground plane as defined in
CISPR 32 \[20\]. The reference earth point of the LISNs shall be
connected to the reference ground plane with a conductor as short as
possible.

### 8.3.3 Limits

The equipment shall meet the limits according to CISPR 32 \[20\] table
A.9 which are defined for average detector receiver and for quasi peak
detector receiver. If the average limit is met when using a quasi‑peak
detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both limits and
measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.

8.4 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port
---------------------------------------------------------

This test is applicable to equipment powered by the AC mains.

This test is not applicable to AC output ports, which are connected
directly (or via a switch or circuit breaker) to the AC input port.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
radio equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of
radio and ancillary equipment.

### 8.4.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary
equipment to limit internal noise from the AC mains power input/output
ports.

### 8.4.2 Test method

The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 32 \[20\].

### 8.4.3 Limits

The equipment shall meet the limits according to CISPR 32 \[20\] table
A.10, which are defined for the average detector receiver and for
quasi-peak detector receiver. If the average limit is met when using a
quasi‑peak detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both limits
and measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.

8.5 Harmonic current emissions (AC mains input port)
----------------------------------------------------

The requirements of IEC 61000-3-2 \[8\] for harmonic current emission
apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present document.

8.6 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port)
----------------------------------------------------------

The requirements of IEC 61000-3-3 \[9\] for voltage fluctuations and
flicker apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present
document.

9 Test methods and levels for immunity tests
============================================

9.1 Test configurations
-----------------------

This clause defines the configurations for immunity tests as follows:

\- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as
specified in the core specification;

\- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;

\- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to
ancillary equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment
while connected to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment
necessary to exercise the ports;

\- if the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient
number shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to
ensure that all the different types of termination are tested;

\- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall
be recorded in the test report;

\- ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to
an ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly
terminated to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary
equipment, Radio Frequency (RF) input/output ports shall be correctly
terminated;

\- ports, which are not, connected to cables during normal operation,
e.g. service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors
etc. shall not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC
testing. Where cables have to be connected to these ports, or
interconnecting cables have to be extended in length in order to
exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken to ensure that the
evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or extension of
these cables;

\- the test arrangements for transmitter and receiver clauses of the
transceiver are described separately for the sake of clarity. However,
where possible the test of the transmitter clause and receiver clause of
the EUT may be carried out simultaneously to reduce test time;

\- immunity tests shall be performed in two modes of operation:

\- with a communication link established (traffic mode); and

\- without a communication link established (idle mode).

9.2 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz to 6000 MHz)
-------------------------------------------------

The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.

### 9.2.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate
as intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic field
disturbance at the enclosure.

### 9.2.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000-4-3 \[10\]:

\- For UE and ancillary equipment, the following requirements shall
apply;

\- The test level shall be 3 V/m amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 %
by a sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;

\- The stepped frequency increments shall be 1 % of the momentary
frequency;

\- The test shall be performed over the frequency range 80 MHz to 6000
MHz;

\- Responses in stand-alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see clause 4.3;

\- The frequencies selected during the test shall be recorded in the
test report.

### 9.2.3 Performance criteria

The performance criteria of clause 6.1 shall apply.

9.3 Electrostatic discharge
---------------------------

### 9.3.0 General

The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.

### 9.3.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate
as intended in the event of an electrostatic discharge.

### 9.3.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑2 \[11\]:

\- for contact discharge, the equipment shall pass at ±2 kV and ±4 kV;

\- for air discharge the equipment shall pass at ±2 kV, ±4 kV and ±8 kV
(only for non-conducting surfaces, see IEC 61000‑4‑2 \[11\]).

> NOTE: The EUT shall be fully discharged between each ESD exposure by
> connecting its ground point (where applicable) to the HCP by a
> resistive wire with a 470 kΩ resistor in either end.

### 9.3.3 Performance criteria

The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.

9.4 Fast transients common mode
-------------------------------

### 9.4.0 General

The test shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.

This test shall be performed on signal ports, control ports and DC power
input/output ports if the cables may be longer than 3 m.

Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because
the manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables
longer than 3 m, a list of ports which were not tested for this reason
shall be included in the test report.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.

### 9.4.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate
as intended in the event of fast transients present on one of the
input/output ports.

### 9.4.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[12\]

\- the test level for signal and control ports shall be 0,5 kV open
circuit voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[12\];

\- the test level for DC power input/output ports shall be 0,5 kV open
circuit voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[12\];

\- the test level for AC mains power input ports shall be 1 kV open
circuit voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[12\].

### 9.4.3 Performance criteria

The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.

9.5 RF common mode (0.15 MHz to 80 MHz)
---------------------------------------

### 9.5.0 General

This test is applicable for UE for fixed, mobile, and portable use and
for ancillary equipment.

This test shall be performed on signal, control and DC power
input/output ports, which may have cables longer than 3 m.

This test shall be performed on AC mains power input/output ports of UE
for fixed use and for fixed ancillary equipment. Where this test is not
carried out on a port or any other ports because the manufacturer
declares that it is not intended to be used with cables longer than
stated above, a list of ports which were not tested shall be included in
the test report.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the UE
or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary
equipment.

### 9.5.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic
disturbance.

### 9.5.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑6 \[13\]:

\- the test signal shall be amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;

\- the stepped frequency increments shall be either 50 kHz or 1 %
frequency increment of the momentary frequency in the frequency range
150 kHz - 5 MHz and 1 % frequency increment of the momentary frequency
in the frequency range 5 MHz - 80 MHz;

\- the test level shall be severity level 2 as given in
IEC 61000‑4‑6 \[13\] corresponding to 3 V RMS, at a transfer impedance
of 150 W;

\- the test shall be performed over the frequency range 150 kHz -
80 MHz;

\- responses of stand alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see clause 4.3;

\- the frequencies selected during the test and the test method used
shall be recorded in the test report.

### 9.5.3 Performance criteria

The performance criteria of clause 6.1 shall apply.

9.6 Transients and surges, vehicular environment
------------------------------------------------

### 9.6.1 Definition

The tests are applicable to UE intended for use in a vehicular
environment.

These tests shall be performed on 12 V and 24 V DC power input.

These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.

These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate
as intended in the event of transients and surges present on the DC
power input ports in a vehicular environment.

### 9.6.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with ISO 7637‑2 \[15\] for
nominal 12 V DC powered equipment and nominal 24 V DC powered equipment.
The requirements are detailed as follows:

#### 9.6.2.1 12 V DC powered equipment

The test pulse severity levels I/II shall apply for nominal 12 V system
as specified in table A.1 in accordance with ISO 7637‑2 \[15\].

Where the manufacturer declares that the EUT requires a direct
connection to the vehicle battery, and the corresponding tests are not
carried out, this shall be stated in the test report.

#### 9.6.2.2 24 V DC powered equipment

The test pulse severity level I/II shall apply for nominal 24 V system
as specified in table A.2 in accordance with ISO 7637‑2 \[15\].

Where the manufacturer declares that the EUT requires a direct
connection to the vehicle battery, and the corresponding tests are not
carried out, this shall be stated in the test report.

For UE designed to operate at 12 V DC power supply, but operating from a
24 V DC power adapter ancillary, then the UE shall comply with the
requirements in 9.6.2.1 and the configuration of the UE and the power
adapter shall comply with the requirements of 9.6.2.2.

### 9.6.3 Performance criteria

The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply. However, where the
equipment is powered without the use of a parallel battery back-up, for
pulses 1, 2a, 2b the communications link need not be maintained and may
have to be re-established and volatile user data may have been lost.

9.7 Voltage dips and interruptions
----------------------------------

### 9.7.0 General

The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.

These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
UE or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.

### 9.7.1 Definition

These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate
as intended in the event of voltage dips and interruptions present on
the AC mains power input ports.

### 9.7.2 Test method and level

The following requirements shall apply.

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑11 \[16\].

The test levels shall be:

\- a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of
60 % for 5 periods;

\- a voltage interruption corresponding to a reduction of the supply
voltage of \> 95 % for 250 periods.

### 9.7.3 Performance criteria

The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply. However, in the case
where the equipment is powered solely from the AC mains supply (without
the use of a parallel battery back-up) the communications link need not
be maintained and may have to be re-established and volatile user data
may have been lost. In the event of loss of the communications link or
in the event of loss of user data, this fact shall be recorded in the
test report, the product description and the user documentation.

9.8 Surges, common and differential mode
----------------------------------------

### 9.8.1 Definition

The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.

These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
UE or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.

These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate
as intended in the event of surges being present at the AC mains power
input ports.

### 9.8.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑5 \[17\].

The following requirements and evaluation of test results shall apply:

\- the test level for ac mains power input ports shall be 1 kV line to
ground and 0,5 kV line to line with the output impedance of the surge
generator as given in the IEC 61000‑4‑5 \[17\];

\- the test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 µsec pulse as defined in
IEC 61000‑4‑5 \[17\].

### 9.8.3 Performance criteria

The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.

########  Annex A (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | *     | **T   | *     | **    | **    | **Su  | **New |
| ate** | *Meet | Doc** | *CR** | Rev** | Cat** | bject | vers  |
|       | ing** |       |       |       |       | /Comm | ion** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | R4\#  | R4-17 |       |       |       | Spe   | 0.0.1 |
| 17-10 | 84bis | 10899 |       |       |       | cific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tem   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plate |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | R4-17 |       |       |       | Ca    | 0.1.0 |
| 17-12 | 4\#85 | 14548 |       |       |       | pture |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Text  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Prop  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | osals |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4\#85 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-171 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2520: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Scope |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-171 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2521: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Test  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | condi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-171 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2522: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | App   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | licab |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-171 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2523: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | emis  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tests |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-171 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2524: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Imm   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tests |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  |       |       |       | Pr    | 1.0.0 |
| 17-12 | N\#78 | 72249 |       |       |       | esent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TSG   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roval |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    |       |       |       |       | App   | 1     |
| 17-12 | N\#78 |       |       |       |       | roved | 5.0.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | enary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | --    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-15 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | under |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0001  |       | F     | Impl  | 1     |
| 18-03 | N\#79 | 80264 |       |       |       | ement | 5.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | greed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | draft |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CRs   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-1  | 0002  | 2     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 19-03 | N\#83 | 90401 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FR1   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | exte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsion |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0005  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thods |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imits |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | emis  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sions |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0010  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spe   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moval |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \[\], |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-15 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0011  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of UE |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rad   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spu   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rious |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | emi   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssons |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-15 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0012  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rx    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | excl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-15 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0013  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erfor |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssess |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-15 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0014  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | TS    | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erfor |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | crit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eria, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-15 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0016  | 1     | B     | \[    | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | EMC\] | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CS    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0017  | 1     | B     | \[    | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | EMC\] | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dips  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0018  | 1     | B     | \[    | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | EMC\] | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EFT   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0019  | 1     | B     | \[    | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | EMC\] | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ESD   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0020  | 1     | F     | \[    | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | EMC\] | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ences |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0023  | 1     | B     | \[    | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | EMC\] | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | surge |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0024  | 1     | F     | \[    | 1     |
| 20-06 | N\#88 | 00986 |       |       |       | EMC\] | 5.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vehi  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cular |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nviro |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nment |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | \-    | \-    | \-    | \-    | \-    | U     | **16. |
| 20-06 |       |       |       |       |       | pdate | 0.0** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ve    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (MCC) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0026  |       | A     | CR to | **16. |
| 20-09 | N\#89 | 01512 |       |       |       | TS    | 1.0** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bined |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R16   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0032  |       | A     | CR    | **16. |
| 21-03 | N\#91 | 10117 |       |       |       | for   | 2.0** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Corre |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FR1   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rad   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spu   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rious |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | emis  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (R16) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0036  | 1     | A     | CR to | **16. |
| 21-06 | N\#92 | 11080 |       |       |       | 38    | 3.0** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .124: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TBD   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | moval |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ma    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ximum |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ncert |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ainty |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | asure |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | above |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 12.7  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5GHz, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0038  |       | A     | Big   | **16. |
| 21-09 | N\#93 | 11922 |       |       |       | CR    | 4.0** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ainte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Re   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l-16, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | A)    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0041  |       | A     | Big   | **16. |
| 22-06 | N\#96 | 21652 |       |       |       | CR    | 5.0** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.124 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ainte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Re   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l-16, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | A)    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
